importing
starting load
could not load my_dataset - preprocessing
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: It's sort of like rugby, except the players line up before each play and there are stricter rules about contact.

Each team gets four tries, or 'downs' to move the ball as far as possible down the field. They can do this by handing the ball to a fast player,  the 'running back', or by throwing it to a receiver down the field. The thrower is called the quarterback. A down is over when the player currently holding the ball is tackled. If the team can move forward ten yards in four downs, the counter for downs starts over.  

One touchdown (moving the ball to the other end of the field) is worth 6 points. After that , the team can either kick the ball through the upright goal to gain another point, or try to run the ball past the other team for another two points. 

After 4 downs or a touchdown, the ball is given to the other team for their attempt at a goal.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: 2 teams each have a goal of getting the ball to one side of the field (the endzone). They take turns, going 1 'play' at a time, to get the ball down the field. During a play, the quarterback (the one who is first given the ball when everyone starts moving) can run with the ball on his own, throw the ball, hand the ball off for someone else to run, etc. All of these are different types of plays. There are hundreds of plays that various teams use, with their own twists on them, etc. 


In order to get down the field, a team has 4 'plays', also called 'downs', to get there. However, if the team is able to gain 10 yards in 1-4 downs, they gain 4 more turns (get their counter reset to '1st down'). The ball is always placed at where it was held when the person holding the ball was tackled (basically). So if the quarterback runs for 5 yards and is tackled on their 1st down, when they start up again it's now 2nd down, with 5 yards remaining, or as it's commonly referred to, "2^nd and 5". If the quarterback was tackled behind their original 10 yards, they have to make up those extra yards too. 

When a team reaches the endzone, that's called a touchdown. This grants 6 points. The team then has the option of either kicking the ball through the posts for 1 extra point (which happens a lot because it's relatively easy) or running another play from the 10(right?) yard line. if during that extra play they get into the endzone again, they get 2 points. 

If a team is close enough to the endzone but doesn't want to risk running a play on a 4th down (a lot of teams won't because if they don't make it, the ball is given to the other team), they'll try to go for a field goal, which is where the offense has a kicker that tries to kick the ball from whereever it is into the slot between the 2 posts. This is worth 3 points.

If a team is on 4th down but they're too far away for a field goal, they will often (but don't HAVE to) punt. In this case, a kicker kicks the ball as far down field as he can (without kicking it out of bounds) in order to make the other team, who is now on offense, have to go as far as possible to gain their points.

There's a few other more advanced rules, but those are the basics I wish someone had told me when I started watching.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: Don't think of it like a "ball in goal" game, think of it like a "territory capture" game.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: Essentially, American football is like a Chess match where you get to carefully choose where you place you pieces prior to each "play". Then and enormous black man comes and fucks ups all your plans.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: I would just like to point out that the linemen (the guys in the middle of the line smashing into one another) in American professional football are Men of Unusual Stature.  These guys average around 350 pounds (25 stone, or 160 kilos) and spend a great deal of their time in the gym weight training.  Until you have stood next to one of these giants, it is hard to comprehend this.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: This may not help, but if it's possible for you to watch a game with someone who knows what they're talking about, that's the best way to do it.

I'm a woman, and I'm one of the few among my female friends who really knows what's going on in a football game.  I've found that trying to explain the game to my female friends while we're *not* watching the game is a lot like trying to describe to someone how to ride a bicycle: it really works a million times better if you just learn as you go.

Hope you can figure it out enough to enjoy it; football is a wonderful sport because it offers hard hits and great speed for the casual fans, but also has really complex and cerebral strategy for more in-depth fans.  Good luck!
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: A friend of mine explained american football like this to me one day: "Football is gaining land by force while wearing fabulously tight pants"
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: Football is like war.

You have 2 sides. We'll call one side the British and the other side the Scotts. The Scotts are trying to get a special "package" behind the British line. Keep in mind, there are special rules of war, but the basic concept is that each side will try to guess how the other side will line up the troops. The Scotts are trying to line up their troops to exploit weaknesses in the British defense and the British are trying set up defense that will effectively counter the Scotts' offensive. If the Scotts successfully get the package across the British lines, then they get 6 points. They can then try to kick the package through the enemy headquarters window for an additional point.

Now the Scotts have 4 attempts to move the package 10 yards. If by the 3rd attempt there is no chance to move the package the requisite distance, then they have a choice. If they are close enough, they can attempt to kick the package through the window for only 3 points. If they are too far, then they want to kick the package as far back to the enemy line as possible where the British can then pick the package up and attempt to do the same to the Scotts.

There are a few additional things...but that's the basic concept.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: Probably not going to see this but here goes nothing! 

[George Carlin's take on American Football](_URL_0_)
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: Here's an interesting take on the ["which sport is more dangerous?"](_URL_1_) question.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: Linemen are the key to the game. Just saying
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: Rugby plus chess. Every time the ball hits the ground, you stop, lineup again, and execute specific strategies instead of just hocking a ball back and forth.

4 chances score, called "downs". If you get more than 10 yards from where you started, you start back at the first "down." Ususally, on the 4th down, you kick it to the other team and try to prevent them from getting too far with it, so they have to start their 4 downs from as far back as possible. If they're close enough to the 1st down line though (like 1 - 3 yards) they ususally just go for it and try to get a first down without kicking to the other team.

At the start of each play, the "center" tosses the ball backward, between his legs, to the "Quarterback" ("hiking" the ball). Everyone starts moving. The line of guys in front of the Quarterback tries to block a line of the other team's guys from getting to the Quarterback to keep him from throwing or passing. The Quarterback can either let a "Reciever" run way down the field and make a really long pass to him, or just hand it to the guy next to him and let him try to run as far as he can, avoiding the lines of players trying to block him. That is, "passing" plays or "running" plays. If nobody catches a pass and it hits the ground, they start the next down from the same spot again.

The field has a 50 yard line in the middle, and zeroes at either end. When they get to the zero yardline, they've reached the "end zone". This is a "touchdown". 6 points, and a free chance to kick through the high-up goal posts for an extra 1 point. The kicks can be either "good" or "no good".

Only one forward pass is allowed per play, then the guy with the ball is usually expected to run as far as he can before he gets tackled. If someone has the ball and he falls with it, the action stops for another lineup... starting right where the guy with the ball fell. If you have the ball and you're about to get tackled you can, if you want, pitch it backwards to someone else who keeps running, but this almost never happens. I dunno why. I think it would be a cool element to the game.

Anyway, that's a dirty, haphazard explanation.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: It's similar to rugby in that if you watch it, you get some vague idea of what is going on, but probably won't understand it fully unless you've played it.

At its heart it's a war game, where the offensive team attempts to move a ball forward by either breaking through or circumventing the defensive team's lines in a series of set-piece battles.

As long as you reach periodic checkpoints you can keep going.  If you get stalled, you have to give the ball up.

Once you get close to the end of the field, there are a couple of ways of scoring, that are worth various numbers of points.

That's enough that if you watch it, you can develop understanding.

I've never played football, and only have a general idea of what I'm seeing, but I still enjoy it.  The announcers for the most part assume that the audience has played the game, so you really can't learn complexities by watching.

[Typical American college football recap](_URL_2_); youtube is full of this kind of stuff.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: Basically, there's three grabbers, three taggers, five twig runners, and a player at Whackbat. Center tagger lights a pine cone and chucks it over the basket and the whack-batter tries to hit the cedar stick off the cross rock. Then the twig runners dash back and forth until the pine cone burns out and the umpire calls hotbox. Finally, you count up however many score-downs it adds up to and divide that by nine.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: This is a very complicated game to explain.  I would advise starting here - _URL_3_

Be patient while learning it because there are several aspects of the game that are very complicated to understand, even for people that are very familiar with the game.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: I wish I had those digital "down lines" they add on TV broadcasts when I was a kid. Would have made it a lot easier to understand.
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: For those interested, this has a great LI5 definition of the Superbowl, and American Football in general: _URL_4_
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: You might find more information in this askreddit post from 2 days ago

_URL_5_
question: American Football for an Englishman.I know absolutely nothing about it answer: do you know the rules of Rugby League? _URL_6_
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Buffets are profitable because:

* the food is usually lower quality
* they can get by with fewer staff
* it is cheaper to prepare the food in bulk, instead of cooking plating it per order

EDIT: By lower quality, I don't mean crappy.  I mean vegetables vs. meat, chicken vs. beef, store bought vs. homemade.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: One word: Volume. 

Food is pretty cheap to make in bulk. Plus not everyone eats like it's their last meal. Those that do are usually balanced out by people that are reasonable.  

There's a few exceptions like casino buffets. They're (usually) subsidized by the casino so they don't have to worry about making a profit. They can give away the house because they know you'll hit the casino floor later to make it up 10 fold. 

The one place that confuses me is Golden Corral because they're an independent business. $10 doesn't buy you much in terms of food and they have some "good" stuff like steak. Even though it's sirloin at $2-3/lb, that gets eaten up quite quickly. Their margins must be pretty thin.  

But overall, the food is cheap and cooked in volume so there's lots of room to move around.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I used to work at a fine dining restaurant that served a fancy brunch buffet every Sunday. 

One day a very thin lady started to show up every Sunday right when we opened.  She always came in alone and made a bee line for the bowl of peel and eat shrimp.  She would load her plate up with nothing else then go back to her seat and eat all of them. Then she would wait until we refilled it and then she would go back again.   She would do this until we were out.   

The waitstaff wondered how she was able to eat 6+ pounds of shrimp in a few hours.  I thought she was putting it into her purse.    On her third visit, one of the female staff discreetly monitored her every move.   She quickly found out that our guest would make quick trips to the bathroom where she would vomit up everything she ate and then go back and load up on more shrimp. 

She got the incorrect nickname "Anna" short for Anorexic (It should have been Bulimia but we weren't clever enough to come up with an innocent female name we could refer to her as in front of other guests).   "Anna" would also rarely speak to us.  She would smile when appropriate, and either nod or shake her head when asked a question. 

Once our boss (who never came in on Sundays) found out he did some quick calculations and figured she was losing us too much money.    Rather than ban her, he simply had us change our peel and eat strategy.  We broke up the peel and eat shrimp from one big bowl into several smaller bowls scattered throughout the buffet line.   We were told NOT to refill them until she left.  

The next Sunday, "Anna" showed up and at first frowned at the change in her routine. She had to go through the entire buffet line to get all of the shrimp.  She also had to empty each of the bowls as she came across them.  Her usual attempts at discretion were no longer working and the guests in line with her started to make comments like "Wow- are you on a shrimp only diet?"  and "Hey, leave some for the rest of us!"   "Anna" hurried back to her seat, resumed her usual ritual of binging and purging and then sat quietly waiting for us to refill the bowls.  I only refilled the one at the end of the buffet so other guests could get some before she got to it.    I left the rest of them empty.  If any other guest asked for them, I would tell them we were out then quietly take a small bowl out to their table (out of sight of "Anna" of course).    

After about an hour of sitting with a plate of shrimp peelings, "Anna" was forced to actually interact with us and ask about the shrimp.  When she was told we were out she became visibly upset and stormed out.     We never saw her again after that.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: > How are buffets profitable?

Sometimes they're not:

Years ago in my younger, stupider, days I was doing a construction job out in the country with a crew of hillbillies.  We got talking one Friday about a local place that makes delicious food.  Well, they also had a really good buffet, and after a little day-dreamin' and droolin' we all decided to stop by there after work for dinner.

You gotta understand that even with our boots off and our stomachs empty weren't none of us small guys:  I don't think there was anyone on that job less than 220 pounds.  And because of the prospect of delicious "All You Can Eat" some of the guys were even going light on snacks and lunch in order to keep extra room for dinner.

So after a 10 hour day, we shove off and make our way over to the buffet and we just start *digging in*.  We're eating like we invented it.  They'd bring out a steam tray of pasta?  That's our steam tray of pasta.  Another of dumplings?  Wasn't even likely to reach the buffet table before it ends up on our plates.

Well, after a time, when we'd accumulated a stack of plates that could've stocked a Crate-N-Barrel, this grizzled guy comes sauntering over to our table.  He identifies himself as the owner:

*"Is the food good?"*  

We said it was.

*"Y'all enjoying yourselves?  Getting enough to eat?"*

We said we were.

*"That's fine.  I just wanted to make sure y'all enjoyed it, because once you're done here, I don't ever want to see a single one of you guys back in here again."*

He hit us all with a near fatal dose of the Evil Eye and then turned his back and sauntered back to the kitchen.

And that's how I learned that sometimes it's not really All You Can Eat.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Not everyone takes "All you can eat" as a personal challenge. Also there's some psychology involved. It's no accident the salad bar and pastas are in front, and the meat carving station is way in the back.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Hello, I worked in a restaurant.

- The price for a buffet meal is fairly high. $25 to $30 during dinner.

- Most people can only eat a certain amount, particularly children.

- Extra money is made on expensive drinks.

- The buffet is organized in such a way that there are a lot of cheap foods (like rice) that brings down cost per customer. Normally, people don't just eat meat. They'll put some rice, or salad on the side.

- Food is bought in larger quantities, so they get better wholesale prices.

- Less staff. No one has to go around actively serving customers.

But keep in mind the profits are still pretty thin. Opening a buffet doesn't mean instant success.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I think some one touched on it... but the buffet is not the only income. Think drinks. Fountain drinks cost a few cents per fill but restaurants often charge $2+ making a huge profit. Alcoholic beverages if served at the establishment are often another huge source of profit.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I think some places have a few tricks to curb your appetite. The best one I can think of off the top of my head is at a brewery here called granite city. They have a Sunday breakfast buffet with prime rib, thick bacon and so on. But they also bring to your table, for each person, something I deemed the "stomach plug". These stomach plugs are giant cinnamon rolls. Each one equals about 2-3 average sized cinnamon rolls.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: OK. I work at a pizza place that does buffets. It costs $8 with a drink to get the buffet. $8 is about the price of a medium (12inch) pizza here. Most people won't / can't eat any more than how much is on a medium pizza so we'll usually only have about 1 pizza per person out and the bread sticks and cinnamon sticks are distributed to everyone almost evenly. Even though we make less than someone buying a pizza straight up, it's still profitable. Oh and when it comes to pizza buffets, don't believe that the pizza you get is lower quality. It isn't. After a bit of being on a metal pan (like an hr) the crust will get soggy from grease and will taste pretty bad but when you put it in the cardboard box for take out or delivery, the box absorbs the grease that goes to the bottom and the pizza's crust is not soggy. 

Tl;Dr - if you're at a pizza buffet, ask for some fresh custom pizzas. We don't mind unless the buffet is nearly full already.

Edit: For all you wondering, I work at Mr Jim's which is a pizza chain mainly regional to the Dallas fort worth area. Not cici's
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I could be wrong but isn't one of the big costs in restaurants unused food; ingredients that people don't order. Buffets don't have this issue I assume. Obviously not the full answer but probably a contributing factor.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: It's an *entirely* different business model than running a restaurant.  You have to do a lot of observation and make sure that items are put up that are constantly popular since leftovers will cut into your profits. 

There are many cost saving measures that make a buffet quite profitable. The biggest consideration that it takes less staff to actually run a buffet than it takes to run a service in a restaurant. Labor is a really large percentage of your operating cost and a buffet can schedule employees in a pretty stable and regular manner because when they are not running to the line, they can be preparing in bulk. 

It takes fewer employees to refill items than it does to individually plate items and run them to the table. Since no one is waiting for food, higher table turnover. So, more volume. 

* Portion control - Expensive proteins are usually not self serve. 

* The salad bar - Getting people to fill up on salad lessens the amount o things that they eat, overall. This is why the salad bar is the beginning of the buffet. And produce is cheap.

* The dessert bar - Overall, desserts are super cheap to make. And if someone sees a sea of desserts, they might slow down so that they can gorge on desserts. 

* Item placement - There is an entire psychology behind where things are being placed. Starches are cheap, and you will find them easily accessible placed to the front of the proteins.

* Smaller serving utensils - Sounds stupid, but it's true. A smaller serving utensil encourages portion control.

* The plates are smaller -Requires more trips to the food line.

* There is never a horrible rush - You don't need to drop everything and deal with a huge pile of orders that are up. This frees your back of house staff to create a steady flow of prepared items. Gives a lot of breathing space to the prep and cooking staff. 

* Making everything from scratch - It may not taste so great because it sits around for a while, but they do try and make everything from scratch. This is because making it from scratch is far cheaper with regards to food costs. A bag of prepared french fries costs $6 for a 5 lb bag while a 50 lb sack of potatoes costs $12. 

* Budgeting - You can figure out what the per person food costs are and average it out with a reasonable margin.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Buffets are make-to-inventory, while restaurants are make-to-order. Make-to-inventory is always cheaper, since the cooks can cook for the busy times during the slow times. If you make to order, then you have to wait for the order before cooking it.

As an extra bonus, cooking two servings of a dish takes less time than cooking one serving twice.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I was at a chinese food buffet once when a group of football players came in (it was across the street from a university.) 

The staff came out with bowls of celery and started adding it to every  dish. There's nothing like cellulose to fill the gut and slow them down a bit.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I own and operate a "by-the-pound" buffet and being able to buy in bulk saves a ton of money. I buy 200 pounds of chicken on Monday because Tuesday is soul food day. It's easier and cheaper than buying 50 pounds of chicken that you have to prepare individually for a table that is served by a waiter. My profit margins are great because it's by the pound. People come in, they put food on their tray, they pay, and leave.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I'm not an expert on how buffets operate, but I can give you some information relating to how/why buffets *should be* profitable based on my past high-end catering experience.

Let's say the price for an adult is $19.95 for an all-you-can-eat buffet. From my experience (regardless of the price), the less expensive and "gut-busting" food items are displayed first (i.e. bread, crackers, vegetable and fruit displays, salads, soups, and the almighty pasta courses) with the more expensive items at the very end (carved meats, seafood, ribs, fish, etc.).

I call the former "gut-busters" because most of these items are filled with carbohydrates (bread, pasta, hearty soups, etc.) and fill a person's stomach at a greater rate opposed to eating lighter foods or proteins, especially when said carbs come in contact with liquids (water, tea, soda,beer, alcohol).  

Buffet restaurants know this and use it to their advantage as they assume most people will simply load up their first plate with the "gut-busting" items and when they get to the more expensive items, they don't have enough room on their plate and figure that they'll just come back for seconds. They're anticipating that by the end of your first plate, you're too full to even think about going back for seconds. So let's say you ate tiny portions of a few salads, pastas, had some raw veggies, a couple pieces of fruit, and maybe a bowl of soup. All told, what you just ate might amount to $3 at-cost to the restaurant. And that $19.95 you just shelled out to eat that food? The standard food cost percentage in restaurants is 35%, give or take a percentage point; buffets are looking for anywhere between 20-28% food cost. Remember that $3 you just ate although you paid $19.95 for the privilege? That comes out to 15.04% food cost to the restaurant: In layman's terms, BOOM! PROFIT!. 

Let's say you ate all of the food mentioned above and are still hungry so you grab a few slices of prime rib and a few shrimp. The cost of your plates now jumped from $3 to maybe $5. You feel like you got your money's worth because not only did you eat salad, veggies, fruit, pasta, soup, prime rib, and shrimp, but you're leaving full and satisfied. You surely dented the restaurant's profits because you ate so much right? Wrong. By you eating that extra protein you increased their food-cost from 15.04% to 25.1%; still within their targeted food-cost percentage to make a profit. Couple this with low labor costs and overhead (I'm reaching here, based on how efficient each individual buffet is managed), they can be highly profitable enterprises when done correctly and constantly monitored. 

All told, if you choose to eat at these establishments, eat what you want however much you want but please keep in mind they're also trying to run and operate a successful business. Going straight to the higher-end items and eating only these items is bad form in my opinion. But do as you wish.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: You rang? :)

It's all been covered. For every one big eater there are four who are not. We are $30 plus, and adults still eat the kids mashed potatoes. Meat is expensive. We use the cheaper cuts of quality product if that makes sense. Chicken that is cooked but never exposed to guests and not used today is in tomorrow's chicken based soup.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I used to manage a buffet, so I actually know this topic!  Buffets make money by enticing you with high price items, then once you are in the building, convincing you to fill your plates with low cost items.  

  In the same way that grocery stores design their layouts to make you spend more, profitable buffets will offer breads, vegetables, and low quality meats (cheap stuff) at the beginning of the line, allowing you to fill your plate, while reserving expensive items (steak, shrimp, and the like) for the end of the line.  

   A good manager knows to locate his expensive items at strategic locations and to offer them in small portion sizes, while making cheaper items look as appetizing as possible.  That is why Golden Corral will usually cut your steaks for you, as well as why the rolls are freaking delicious and right at the beginning of the line!
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: A few major reasons buffets yield profit (although they typically don't yield as much as you would think).

 * Most people don't put back as much food as you think. On average, most customers put back about two plates, which really isn't all that much. Occasionally you have someone who can put away half the spread on their own, but they are typically the oddity. The money you paid for the buffet probably covers about three plates worth of food, so if you only eat two, each person is paying for food they don't eat, effectively making up for that one fat-ass whose on his 9th plate. 

 * Buffets are normally *loaded* with rice and/or pasta. Those are dirt cheap. Rice, before cooking, only costs ~$1/Lb, and on average will expand to double it's size when cooked (although that varies on what type of rice you are using), so if you're paying $8 for a buffet, and eating mostly rice, let's say you manage to put back 1.5lbs of it (which is an obscene amount), the restaurant just made ~$5.50 in profit off you. (That figure accounts for the veggies and/or sauce that were in the rice, as well). Similar prices apply to most pastas. 

 * Labor. A buffet can be almost entirely prepped, set up, and run, by 2 people. During actual service, depending on how busy the place is, sometimes just 1 person. Labor makes up for a good portion of what you are paying for when you go out to eat, so cutting that cost down is a substantial reason why buffets can be so cheap.

 * Volume. Restaurants make money by volume. Even if you don't make a significant amount of money with each plate you sell, if you sell lots of them, you make lots of money. Buffets operate on a similar principal. Sell lots of people food without a huge profit margin, and you will still make a large profit (the margin itself won't be that high, but positive cash flow will be). 

There are other "tricks", too. Put the cheap/filling stuff at the beginning of the buffet, and anything that is more expensive towards the end. Make sure everything is heavy on the starches (rice, potatoes, pasta) as they tend to be cheap and very filling. Throw a few high-end proteins (steak, crab legs, etc.) on the buffet towards the end. The name will attract customers, but it's very likely not many people will eat it, so you only have to prep a little bit of it. Think of it like an advertising budget. 

The list of nuances for making a buffet profitable could go on for a while, but those are the big points. 

Source: Been a chef for close on 15 years, set up more buffets than you've had hot meals.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Everything is way cheaper than you think.  This is how all business make money. They have a merchant account. They buy from distributors at almost cost. That is extremely cheaper than what you as a customer can get. When I was younger I worked for various retail and restaurant chains. Even things marked down or on sale are often still marked up 100 percent for what the business payed.  
Look at sodas and fries for example.  Large fries or a soda cost 2 bucks or more. You can go to club stores and get a whole bag of fries for 3 or a box of soda syrup that will pour out hundreds of drinks for 50.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: When I go to a buffet, I typically get three plates. One for a main course, one for everything I missed, and one for desserts.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: My friend took a Chinese buffet to the cleaners once.  He sat and ate so much, they told him he either had to leave or pay for dinner too.  It *started* as lunch.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Chef here. Buffets are priced differently than a typical restaurant. In a restaurant each dish is price in such a way that the food costs somewhere between 18-35% of the total price, on average (depends on the dish and the type of restaurant). 

At a buffet you obviously can't do that because everyone pays the same regardless of what they eat, or how much.

Instead pricing is typically done based on projected seating. If we turn 6 tables of 4 every hour, and we're open 12 hours a day, that equates to a grand total of 288 customers on an average day (minimum). Pricing is done relative to that number such that everything stays afloat and produces a profit. For example a 10% profit (pretty typical for a restaurant) on $20,000/week operating costs would be $22,000 so divide that by your average number of weekly customers found using the above calculation (288*7, or however many days a week you're open) and you'll get your final recommended price. $11/person in this particular example.

Note: numbers were pulled out of my ass and don't reflect any specific restaurant or industry standard

TL;DR: Buffets are priced based on knowing on average how many people you'll serve and making sure that you account for all your operating costs.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Even the fattest of fat people cannot eat more than it costs the buffet in materials and labour to feed them.

Bulk cooking is much cheaper than what you do at home. Cooking 400 gallons of marinara is much cheaper than cooking a half gallon 800 times. You can order tomatoes and meat in bulk direct from the supplier.

Buffets charge about $20-$50 depending on how classy a buffet it is. Cheap beef (one of the more expensive ingredients involved) grosses retail at around $2 per pound. So that's 10 pounds of the most expensive ingredient - something you could never eat in a sitting.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I worked at a buffet place years ago. Things may have changed, but all I had to do was clear used plates off the table and refill drinks. (I also had to do other normal server duties; restock plates, glasses, roll silverware, etc) The shitty part was that I got paid minimum wage **for a server** I made less than $2.00/hr and bc I wasn't actually a *real* server (and bc it was a buffet place) so people **never** tipped. So I would walk out on a Friday night with a few quarters from the people who did leave tips. I quit after 2 nights. Oh, and In those 2 nights I witnessed 3 people vomit in the parking lot when leaving from stuffing themselves. Worst job ever.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I've spent time managing in a buffet on the LV Strip. I can tell you a few quick things:

It didn't matter if someone wanted a refund.

It didn't matter if someone came in with their kids, didn't pay for themselves cause they weren't eating, and then when their kid didn't like the food asked if they could eat instead of the kid.

The point of restaurants in a casino, including the buffet, is to keep the customer happy so they'll stay in the building and go back and gamble. You're in the hospitality industry less than you are in food and beverage. It's all about keeping the customer in the building and spending money. It doesn't matter if I gave you a twenty-two dollar steak, because ten minutes after you left you dropped fifty bucks playing blackjack and went to the ATM.

Sometimes, often times, it's the other end of it too. People have ALREADY lost money, and they decided to get up to come eat, and you're the closest person they can be angry with. I used to tell my staff, "The angrier the customer, the more likely it is they probably just lost a TON of money." And thinking that usually helped you not empathize, but just straight laugh at their misfortune...which you need to do if you ever work Food and Bev.

All the books are somewhat separate in casinos though, you know? Like numbers are tracked per department, per restaurant, the same as they're tracked in singular retail outlets for like GAP and stuff. So the buffet has X amount of covers they want to be doing an hour to stay profitable in comparison with last year, etc etc. But for the most part, it didn't fucking matter what happened, it didn't matter what we gave away. Just keep them happy, and keep them gambling.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: _URL_0_

I guarantee that I could not eat $50 worth (cost/labor/overhead) of food from here.

Why? They had a million customers *before their first anniversary*. Volume purchasing and assembly line labor translates to the exact same item from a regular "service" restaurant would cost much more simply because of the economies of scale. They likely make more of one item in a day than a normal restaurant would make in a month or a year.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I misread title as "How are bullets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat bullets?" until I realized I should renew my glasses.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I asked the manager at CiCis (a pizza buffet) and he says it takes them $0.25 to make a pizza, so your have to eat 20 entire pizzas for them to lose money
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: You never have to wait long for a soda refill at a buffett because it is cheap and fill you up
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Your enjoyment rates also decrease every time you return. The business entices you, while knowing that each additional plate of food provides less utility than the one before, meaning all customers will stop returning when their "limit" is reached, that is, when they are too full and their enjoyment drops. Considering other factors such as the number of people they can entertain at a given time, the "limit" would basically be their basis on how much or what food would be served in a day. In economics this is the [law of diminishing marginal utility](_URL_1_).
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Usually the buffet buys in bulk like a lot of food to make a profit, also drinks (besides water) help with getting a profit
 Like Chinese buffets large ones order so much to get a price break , good luck trying to make em lose a profit unless all you eat is prime rib, crab legs or chicken wings
 

My buddy and his friend actually did eating contests at buffets subsequently he and his friends ended up getting kciked out as they ate too much. He and his friends aren't fat either.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: It's a little known fact that buffets are actually partially underwritten by Warren Buffet. It is a good way for him to get his name out there all over the country at minimal cost.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Essentially unless you pack your guy so full of meat you won't shit for a month buffets are profitable. People fill up on cheap starches and don't eat much.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: In the case of a casino, the buffet might actually lose money, but attracts more customers who will gamble, increasing overall profits.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Not sure about the high end ones but the buffet I worked at did it like this.

The largest pod and area was salads, this is also the cheapest to purchase. It was also closest to the front door. Busy day your waiting in line and looking at that. A lot of folks go for it first because of this.

Entrees were the medium area. The smallest pod and most expensive was meats and the carving station. Usually a line for carving so it would mostly block the expensive stuff. The pod closest to the dining area was full of the cheaper side dishes. People tending to hit that first when going for warm food. The other main dish pod was different daily. So it could be Mexican on Monday and Italian the next. Usually not pricy over all it was not a large pod and off to the side.

Last is desserts the smallest area and pod usually second in price behind the meats. Cook time was factored in to this. It was off to the other side of the restaurant total. Most things were pre-portioned as well. It was also arranged odd so again if we were busy it looked like a lot more people were in it. 

Layout was determined by corporate and we couldn't change it. This was mainly to control the flow of people. Aim them at the cheap stuff and let them fill up on that. The drinks were in the middle of the dining area and we advertised them as free so people would drink a bunch of coke or sprite. This was dirt cheap for us. 

The layout of the dining area was set to keep you from getting too comfy. Tables a little on the small side, booths pushed in just a little too close. No one hung out after eating so we could have a faster turn on the tables.

Sure you'd have people game the system so to speak. Show up right at change over pay lunch price and eat dinner. Or the guy that brought a book. Folks that would pile meats on their plate and not eat it all. My favorite were the fools that would bring in plastic bags and load it up full then try and walk out with a bag full of fried chicken. Usually the wait staff got them. You could tell even on a busy day if some one was loading up to take it home.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: The way buffets are priced is you add up the cost of all the food that was eaten. Divide it by the number of people served. That is your food cost per plate. Add in all of your fixed and variable costs plus whatever you  set for your profit(believe it or not most restaurants are lucky to see 8% profit margin).  You do this calculation on a regular basis to get the average cost throughout the year so be sure you have the right price set. Labor cost are one of the largest factors that go into the price of a food item and when they are produced in quantity you really see economies of scale pretty quickly.

When you don't gorge yourself you are making up for those who do

Buffets in a casino are different since they typically don't care to make a profit off of them and just want to get people in the door to gamble.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: My parents owned a small diner that they put a buffet into. Every day featured a different home cooked option like meatloaf, catfish, hamburger steaks, and one night was ribs. Eventually they had to shut the buffet down because it was causing the diner to bleed money. 

The problem, as others have said, was that my parents did not use lower quality food and kept the same amount of staff (because the menu was still an option). The rib night was the real culprit and final nail in the coffin. The diner was in a small town and when rib night rolled around, every farmer and farm hand in the area came out of the woodwork to eat mountainous plate after plate of ribs. Often times they wouldn't touch a single other item on the buffet.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: So from what I've read, by not buying a drink and avoiding the cheap foods that fill you up quickly and heading straight for the more expensive foods like meats, you will give the least profit to a buffet because you'll be eating more expensive stuff that fills you up less, and drinks are a high source of income for buffets. 

With that being said, even if you get more from your money for it, I don't think trying to purposely make a buffet lose profit is a good thing, especially if you enjoy the restaurant. It seems like making them lose profit is something that's hard to do without serious intent.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: The profit is made on people like me who pay $20 for all I can eat and I can't eat more than one plate. For me it ends up being over-priced cafeteria food, which is why I don't go to them.

*Except* the buffet at the Bellagio in Las Vegas. It's something like $45 a person and worth every penny. The key for me there is to take small portions so I can try lots of different stuff.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: As a kid buffets are like all your dreams have come true. I went to a buffet just the other night, I'm now older and a qualified chef, and i was amazed at how much of the produce was brought it. 
People don't seem to give it a thought or even care that it's all pre-made and just heated or put on a plate, and of course they all think they're getting a great deal.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Food is not most of a restaurant's cost -- think salaries, rent, equipment, advertising, etc. Those are fixed costs no matter how much or little a customer eats, or whether the customer comes in at all.

But from the customer's viewpoint, the food is the most important part. So restauranteurs know that feeding them as much as they want is well worth it.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: most buffets make money by buying the cheapest food possible in the biggest quantity possible, and then charge $2 bucks per glass of pop.

also, i like how nearly every post in this thread has been hit by what i presume to by the Downvote Brigade, /r/ELI5 Battalion, NA(for North America) Company, American Platoon. lol

EDIT: Fixed my unit reference.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Former pizza buffet worker here.  We charged 7.95 for adult with soda for the buffet.  Me and an owner calculated that in order to get their moneys worth, a customer would have to eat 7 1/2 pizzas in one sitting

edit: theres a big difference between 795 and 7.95
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: My uncle is a chef and recently started at Golden Corral (a chain buffet in the US). He says the profit is $0.15 after accounting for all costs. So, profit margin is low but volume is high.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: And as for one common type of buffet, casino buffets don't need to make money as far as I can tell. They are basically loss leaders.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: My average cost per guest is 1.90, the base entry is 10$ and sodas are 2.5$ of pure profit (soda is in that cost)
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Usually they charge pretty steep for drinks and put ridiculous amounts of salt in the food
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: The food is generally lower quality,  it is prepared in bulk,  and they don't have to plate it for you or anything.   Thus they have fewer wait staff, and can serve more customers faster as they skip the ordering process.  A party of five might spend 30 minutes eating at a buffet but an hour or more eating at a restaurant.   Also,  while some customers like myself are a bottomless pit,  the vast majority eat 1-2 plates.

Cheaper buffets like old country buffet or something where you're paying like $8 a head,  the food is terrible and sits out all day.   Fancier buffets like those found in casinos are considerably more expensive,  though you can usually get them comped if you are playing games.   The buffet is very profitable for the casino as people eat very quickly In 30 minutes and then can go back to playing games.  At a Fancier casino restaurant,  where they can charge $40 a person or something like that,  the casino might actually lose money as the customers would spend an hour or more away from the games which make them the real money.  

Lpt: if you want to stuff your face,  play table games for like 5 minutes at the casino and get your buffet comped.   I do it all the time as its the only place my grandparents will go.  I'll eat lobster buffet for free after spending like $10 at the blackjack table and that's only if I'm not winning.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: To simply the matter, think it this way.

In restaurant business cost break down like this. Raw material (ingredient) is about 25%, labour is another 25%, rent is another 25% and utility/distribution/marketing is another 25%.  People may eat more and increase cost in raw material but you could make equal or more saving in other area. 

Instead of making a chow mein pork noodle for one person, you get to make the same thing for 20 persons in one go. Instead of serving the customer individually, you just get to dump the food in one location and the customer serve it for themselves. Also, buffet tables are squeezed so rent per table is maximised. Also, because the cust gauge themselves and don't talk that much, turnover of table is high. So while raw material cost more, you make more saving in the area of staf, rent and utility.

The profit come from the drinks the customer order. If you want to cause maximum damage to the establishment, just order big bottle of mineral water to share, go easy on main, enjoy deserts, especially fruits and take your time. ;)
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I worked at golden corral for 2 years at the time i was a waiter and got to learn from the kitchen to the office and here is how it works:

1. Drinks, a soda costs a penny to the restaurant if one person drank their fill but cost 2.00 at the front. 
2. Bustling atmosphere, the atmosphere at a golden corral is supposed to seem energetic. Servers are always cleaning and clearing, people are always moving to get more food, tables are moving around, etc. This makes people finish their meals quicker because it sets the tempo of an atmosphere, more in and out means more money. 
3. Bulk Cooking Methods, the buffets cook the food at rather miraculous efficiency of storage and distributions, in fact the one i worked at used to give rolls to people, whom the theory goes would fill up on those and leave the more expensive food. Turned out the rolls and the man hours to make them and serve them cost more than the advantage.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: After having moved from TN to CA (bay area) I was surprised to see very few chinese/multi-asian cuisine buffets. The margins are too small and everything's too expensive here (except for the actual cost of buying food/groceries!, produce, most meats, fish, poultry cost the same though, goat is overpriced here). You might think that people are more health conscious, they are, but Asian people can fucking eat, that's probably the biggest reason why. Most buffet places would go out of business just because of all the hungry asians, esp. if you try to serve any kind of seafood. There are one or two buffet places, but where it would be $8.50 or $10 in TN it's $20 here. At that price I think I'll just go a la carte or just cook at home.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I have no idea. I've been to pizza and chinese buffets. The amount of food I can eat is worth far more than it would cost to buy it as an individual item. At a pizza buffet in college I could eat 2 14" pizzas by myself, which would cost me about 4x what it cost at the buffet. 

Maybe they make money because of all the kids who go there and don't eat much. 

At a chinese buffet, there is one nearby for about $6 that has nuggets that taste almost like Mcdonalds. I can easily eat 20, that alone would cost me about the price of the buffet if I got them at McDs. That doesn't even add in all the chicken I would eat.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Rest owner here of a fast food biz,

a few points 

1. generally speaking, most restaurants have a profit margin somewhere between 8-10 Percent range. i don't know about full service dining restaurants but QSR's definitely do. ( Quality service restauarat which usually refers for a fast food type of place) 

given these margins, most restaurants are experts at cost management especially given the fact that mature restaurants have sales that wont often change dramatically from year to year unless something dramatic happens. 

buffets slash the labor part of the equation, feature less popular dishes to clear inventory and sprinkle a few popular items to keep customers coming back.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Something I wanted to add:

I've never seen a buffet that wasn't kid-friendly.  Sure, the child price is cheaper, but not enough that they are unlikely to profit from a kid.  Kid's won't eat as much as adults usually.  Plus, you have plenty of picky kids who get drug there with their parents and refuse to eat 90% of the food.  When I was younger I was so picky that when we went to one I ate sunflower seeds, pepperoni, grapes, and dinner rolls pretty much exclusively.  My "meal" definitely wasn't worth what my parents paid.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Look at the cost of the food to the restaurant: veggies are pennies per pound, and meat tops out at about $4 per pound wholesale, that's for beef/lamb, pork, chicken and seafood are less.  The only people who could possibly eat enough to make buffets lose money is the sport eating crowd, the world hot dog eating champ and such.  And I would wager that this crowd loves small really tasty platefuls when going out for a meal.  Even frat boys can't make a buffet lose money.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: the buffet at my work is in a casino, it's entirely free.  
but it keeps the punters from leaving, so they gamble more, and the casino gets money back from the buffet and then some.  
i have to top it up every hour and it's sad to see people so hugely messed up taking heaps and heaps of the free food because they think they 'can't afford to eat'...  
then ten minutes later putting $200 into a gaming machine and gambling for 20hrs straight (no exaggeration).
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Old people! Or, rather, people getting older.

I've noticed now I'm well into my 30s that I can't eat how I used to. In my 20s I could shovel food endlessly into my face. Now I eat more than a typical portion and feel sick. This means at most buffets I'm getting ripped off big time but the convenience and variety can be worth it. Most truly old people I know barely eat child portions at mealtimes either.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Average food cost in a restaurant is 33%  

Labour costs are less because of less wait staff, and possibly fewer cooks since they are making one big thing at a time.

Space costs would be similar.    Buffets tend to be more square footage, probably to make the reductions in labour pay.  

Some restaurants do "lunch buffet" to get the best of both worlds, and possibly turn over inventory faster.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: It would be nearly impossible for a customer to consume more than he is paying. If he did then it would most likely imply that the prices are incorrectly set at the buffet.

The biggest threat to a buffet is customers not showing up, not customers eating too much. Most of the food is prepared in advance anyway and if it isn't eaten it is thrown away.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: It seems like the food is lower quality than ordering off the menu. Also a lot of people suck at the art of knocking back four or five plates of food and will pay $15+ for the buffet and get one plate of food, when in reality they could have had the $5 appetizer and been full.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: What fountain soda costs

5 gallon bag in box coke ($85)

128 ounces per gallon

5:1 mix ratio

Total 3200 ounces (assuming no waste)

3200 ounces / 10 ounce soda = 320 sodas

$85/320 = $.27 per serving

Or roughly $.03 per ounce

*edit* checked coke invoice $85/5gal.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Each plate of food cost approximately four to five bucks and you're paying between twenty to thirty bucks to get in. Most people are not eating over three plates of food. Plus when you're buying food at whole sale you're not spending that much in overhead.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I know that around here a truck comes and delivers already cooked cheap Chinese food to most of the Chinese buffets around here. So they probably save a lot of money by not even cooking some dishes in house.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Just eat all meat. I laugh inside when I see buffet rookies filling up on rice or potato based dishes at a buffet.

I can eat maybe 4-5 plates of meat and vegetable at a Chinese buffet
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I don't know about the USA but we have a lot of Chinese buffets here in the UK and the food is very salty meaning more drinks are bought. Profit margins on syrup soft drinks are massive.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I always imagined that buffets are one of the best places to use to launder money because there's no correlation between how much money you made and how much you spent on inventory.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I wonder this with all-you-can-order Japanese places. One time I ate appetizers, ice cream and 14 rolls of sushi. I was with 10 other people who ate similarly.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Being from a Samoan family, the owners would always get mad when we were there for three hours and all fifty of us had at least five plates
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: -Inexpensive, low quality food bought in extreme bulk amounts.

-Reduced staff with no need to have waiters for every table
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: In places i have worked alot of the profit comes for alcohol not included in the price of the buffet
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: You guys should see the free employee buffet in the Bellagio called "manga" it's unreal! Best E.D.R. on the strip!
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: I read that as 'bullets' at first and thought this would be a very different discussion
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Initially read as bullets. Was seriously concerned when people were being served and eating bullets.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: i wish my kitchen had an all you can eat buffet
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: 99.99% of customers wont eat enough to make them lose money.
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Most likely due to buffet food being lower quality (usually).
question: How are buffets profitable? How much money is usually made (on average) per customer at all you can eat buffets? Do customers often eat more than the costs it took to serve them? answer: Because buffets are all you can eat school lunches.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: They're in contact with bodily fluids far more often than you or I would be.  They take precautions, sure, but when you deal with something that frequently unlikely things can happen.

EDIT - I should have also mentioned something about fatigue and how it can cause individual lapses in safety protocols.  This probably contributes pretty heavily, too.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Ebola is, as you likely already know, transmited from person to person through bodily fluids (blood, mucus, etc.). The viral load in these bodily fluids only becomes high enough to infect another person AFTER he or she begins to show simptoms of illness. The combination of these two traits means that out in everyday society, where we avoid sick people and cover our sneezes, the disease doesn't spread very quickly. 

When these sick people are admitted into a hospital, the medical professionals that work there are in almost constant contact with this sick person. Though the medical professionals may have safety equipment in the form of barriers to avoid contact with the bodily fluids that transmit infection, the huge frequency of exposure to the sick person means that the risk of an accidental infection (such as accidentally contaminating yourself while disrobing from the protective gear) is significantly higher. This is true of every illness that you would be hospitalized for, not just Ebola.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I have a friend, he's a chef. He works with very sharp knives for 12+ hours, usually 7 days a week. He knows how to use the tools of his trade properly, and is quite good at his job. He also cuts himself (and burns himself) WAY more than I do. Then again... I'm only around a hot stove for about 30min a day...maybe an hour if I'm cooking real food for supper. I have one knife, I use it for almost everything, but even so I probably only hold it for a few minutes a day. His exposure to potential mistake or accident involving a knife or hot stove is simply much higher than mine, even though I have no idea what I'm doing in the kitchen. I think this is a pretty good analogy for health care workers dealing with Ebola...they're wading through the worst and most infectious area's. They're in the thick of it, intentionally getting involved with people who have the virus. They're careful, sure...but nothing ever goes 100% properly every single time. They're working in an environment where the margin of error is ZERO... as any mistake means potential infection. 

Also, apparently the most dangerous part for the health professionals is when they're taking off their gear. I read an article about a nurse who voulenteered...she described how they're not supposed to be in the protective clothing for something like longer than an hour, and by the time you're done You're exhausted, hot, sore...your goggles are fogged up, your boots are full of sweat...and RIGHT NOW is the MOST dangerous moment of the day, because the entire outside of your gear is infectious, and you are at the very bottom of your game in terms of attention, co-ordination, and stamina. They're trained for it all, and professionals to the extreme...but they're still human. Combine these risks with the above massively increased exposure... I can see how it happens. 

Edit: [This is the article I mentioned.](_URL_1_)

Edit2: Further info on sanitizing vs. sterilization from /u/TinyFishy, some [really great points](_URL_0_) that clarify the purpose and effectiveness of the sanitization procedure.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The biggest reason is that as the disease progresses the amount of virus get to be huge.  Early in the disease essentially no virus is being shed by a patient.  When a patient has reached the near death stage, the patient can be bleeding from eyes, ears, mouth, nose, and spewing bloody diarrhea containing billions if not trillions of infectious virions.  

ELI5:  As a patient gets more ill the challenges of not being infected go up dramatically.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: They come in contact with the fluids when they are taking off the modern safety equipment.  If done correctly, then you should be able to put on, operate, and take off the equipment without contracting the disease but missteps and misinformation lead to mistakes while taking off the equipment.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The first Dallas nurse who was infected reported remembering accidentally rubbing her nose while taking off the safety equipment...human error is probably enough to explain the small number of infections we've seen in the US.

Edit: Some folks are saying it was a nurse in Spain who recalled touching her nose, rather than a nurse in Dallas. I can't find a source to confirm either.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: My understanding is thatin addition to the fact that medical professionals are exposed to bodily fluids far more than the average person (as others have written)Ebola is very *infectious* even though it isn't highly *contagious*.  That means that the virus is normally hard to catch (low *contagion*) but it takes very little of the virus to develop the disease (highly *infectious*).
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Biomedical scientist here and part of the Ebola response team at a large and prestigious hospital on the east coast.

1) The most recent persons to get it is a doctors without borders doc. What people don't realize is that these doctors go into "battle" vastly under supplied in these foreign countries. They do not have Tyvek coveralls, respirators, gloves, and proper sterilization equipment. A lot of them because of supplies are forced to use the same pair of gloves on multiple patients for the day. Some don't use gloves at all. 

2) Taking care of someone with Ebola is hell. There are literally body fluids everywhere. Imagine bloody decomposed fluid oozing out of every pore in your body, plus gallons of diarrhea and vomit. The protective equipment people are wearing here is good, but only if it stays intact and it doffed correctly. 90% of the infections occur because the person contaminates themselves when removing the soiled equipment. 

3) there's more, but I'm at work and don't feel like typing. 

TLDR: taking the protective gear off improperly contaminates you, and 3rd world country doctors don't have the proper supplies. 

Edit: tubeless to Tyvek, damn phone autocorrect
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: According to this article: _URL_2_, which is a great read by the way.  It only takes 1 particle of ebola to be lethal.  There are about 1 million particles of ebola that fit in this "o".  I have the upmost respect for those selfless health care workers that are risking their lives for their fellow humans.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Patients with an active ebola infection can have between 6-12 LITERS of diarrhea a day which, in the US, we try to avoid putting down the sewer system. Now, imagine if you are a nurse caring for a patient with 6-12 LITERS of diarrhea a day with lots of little ebolas in it and you have to keep the diarrhea in the patient's room (contained, of course) until biohazard company can incinerate it. There are so many ebolas all around you it can be difficult avoiding those little boogers. 

Source: health care worker

Edit: I also want to say that I heard from a conference that those nurses in Texas had their necks partially exposed. Now, just imagine providing one on one care for someone shitting that much ebola out of their ass and vomiting ebolas constantly and trying to always replace that fluid for them so their heart can keep working so obviously they don't die on you from premature dehydration AND THEN you have to keep gallons of ebola infected waste in the room with you until a special biohazard company can properly dispose of all of the ebola infected trash and bodily fluids so that the rest of the population can be protected from little ebolas. I mean, sheesh! Nurses are heroes.  Please stop saying I would accidentally touch my face with ebola diarrhea and vomit. That is gross. There is such a high chance of those damn microscopic ebolas in that diarrhea to accidentally get on your exposed neck from the mass ebola chaos that is probably going on in that room trying to keep that person alive.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: My brother is an ER doctor in an urban setting. We had this discussion. The first thing is that while Ebola requires contact to bodily fluids, it appears that Ebola transfers very easily when there is such contact. This is in contrast to HIV, which is not easily spread even when there is a contaminated needle stick. I mean, with HIV, the calculated risk of infection is only 1/200 if you're having vaginal sex with an infected woman. So while Ebola requires contact with bodily fluids, it appears to be much more contagious than other diseases that doctors normally see once you do touch bodily fluids. 

Furthermore, most hospitals in the United States are not equipped to deal with quarantine situations. I said that doctors, prior to getting out of their personal protective equipment, should dip their gloves in a bleach solution and spray themselves with Lysol. He said that they have no facility at his hospital to do so. You just take your gloves off and hope you don't smear yourself with it. You might double bag just to be sure. However, to me, that is fucking horseshit. A bucket of bleach solution and a Lysol spray shower should not cost more than a few hundred dollars. He said that FDA approval of a medical device would ensure that it'll take forever to set up and it would cost a ridiculous amount of money.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Biggest danger is removing the PPE, while it's on it protects you, while you take it off it tries to kill you.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Ebola is difficult to transmit in that you have to be in close proximity with someone before it is easy to transmit.

Medical professionals have to be in close proximity with someone with Ebola, so it's easy to transmit in those circumstances.

They take precautions, but there are lots of things that can go wrong. 

It's like asking "If it's so easy to avoid drowning by staying out of the ocean, why is it that sometimes deep sea divers drown despite all the safety equipment that they wear?"

You don't have to worry about drowning just walking down the street. Similarly, you don't have to worry about Ebola just walking down the street.  But start sticking your head under water, or start touching people with Ebola and you need to be careful, and even with protective equipment sometimes something happens.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I work as a medical professional The typical person who does not work in the field would probably be shocked at how awful the typical employee is at adhering to standard precautions (gloves/hand sanitizing after every interaction). 

Seriously...that shit doesn't happen.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I work in a hospital, and this was discussed at length by management and infection prevention.    The biggest factors were that there weren't protocols for dealing with that patient in that hospital,  there weren't specially trained people to deal with it, and the CDC did not get their team in place fast enough.   

Ebola is not contagious before symptoms appear and it doesn't really get bad until 72 hours after your fever escalates over 101.   At Emory,  a specialized team of 40 is trained to deal with patients with Ebola and are the only health care workers that come into contact with the patient or their body fluids.   At Dallas, they had almost a hundred different people in contact with that patient, and they treated the patient like a normal droplet/contact isolation at first.  I'd say that it is a testament to the low R0 of the disease. 

We have now formed an Ebola team at my hospital that consist of 34 people.    The CDC has made arrangements so that any patient that is confirmed to have Ebola will be transfered to a regional center that has been set up within 72 hours.   I'm on that team, and I'm not worried even if we do get a patient.    I know what I'm doing, understand the disease, and we are well trained.

I equate the panic to the Aids epidemic of the 80s where people didn't understand the virus and thought you could get it from hugging a patient or even using the bathroom.    There are many other things I would worry about more than Ebola.   I almost lost a friend to meningitis,  and I watched an 18 year old girl die from the flu last year.  In the US, influenza is estimated to facilitate the deaths of around 35,000 people in the average year, and people don't want to take the vaccine because they don't like needles.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I'd like to add...

as someone who recently went from never working with patients, to being in the rooms of 16 or so on any given day..

Most non-healthcare associates don't really have a good understanding of just how often you come in contact with bodily fluids. A LOT, I'd dare say the majority of patients are sitting down on chucks pads (basically, diapers spread out without velcro) because they're too sick/physically unable to make it to the bathroom. 

This means the nursing tech (usually 1 per unit....1 unit is anywhere from 10-16 or so patients) is essentially going room to room much of the day cleaning patients bed sheets and wiping their asses for them, literally. Gloves are great. Gowns are great. They aren't perfect though. And when you're doing it THAT often, its just a numbers game.

NOW, think about how that nurse tech is one person going room to room. One mistake in one room is enough to potentially spread whatever germs to each person in the entire unit. 

Also, family members/arrogant physicians often feel they are exempt to the disease prevention protocols. One huge issue at the hospital I work at is physicians being held accountable for not taking proper precautions.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Doctors Without Borders: 700 served. Infected: 4. So maybe good old fashioned accidental, and most likely due to sleep deprivation. Add to that these 700 doctors are not working in state of the art facilities.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The medical professionals commonly contract the disease during the process of removing their safety equipment.  The equipment itself is quite good at keeping the virus on the outside of itself and not letting it inside, but that means the virus stays on the outside of the suit.  The problem comes when the suits are taken off, which must be carefully done or else you risk exposing your unprotected skin to the virus on the outside of the suit.  

To get a picture of the problem, try an experiment.  The next time you are taking your clothes off, try to take them off without touching the exterior of your clothing at all.  Mess up once and you have just been exposed to Ebola.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I oddly enough just asked my friend this questions. She's a nurse in an Intensive Care Unit. 

When you treat really sick people like Ebola patients you were lots of protective gear. 

Ebola patients unfortunately have lots of fluids coming out of them (blood, diarrhea, vomit) and that gets on all your protective gear.  

There is a very precise way that you are supposed to remove your gear so that you don't get fluids on your skin. But it's very hard to do perfectly. It's very hard to remove dirty gloves without touching skin. 

All you need is one irritated hair on your body for the virus to sneak in after you accidentally touch skin with dirty clothes.  

Most hospitals rarely practice the procedures since these types of diseases are so uncommon.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The patients are vomiting, shitting like crazy, bleeding and sweating from their fever...and someone has to clean it all up....then take everything off in the perfect order so they dont get anything on them...
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: While the personal protective equipment (PPE) does its job while you're wearing it, taking it off and disposing of it is a tricky and dangerous task. 

Taking the equipment off improperly is believed to be how the nurse in Texas was infected.  Removing gloves or the helmet/face mask, after handling a specimen (urine, poop),  in the wrong order can easily lead to contamination and subsequent infection.  

Just as much training is needed for taking the equipment off as is putting the equipment on, if not more. One little slip up in the order of removal or disposal of the contaminated equipment and it could spell disaster.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I work in a hospital.  Right now, a lot of our medical providers are concerned that they don't have enough training in how to remove their gear in a way that doesn't infect themselves.  

Say you're wearing latex gloves.  You use one glove to take off the other, fine.  But now how do you take off the remaining glove without touching it?

That's how medical staff members are getting infected.  They aren't trained in safe removal of their gear.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The other top answers are terrible

ELI5 - improper use of safety equipment, including the point at which you take it off.

Understand that few nurses regularly deal with "isolation" patients, let alone a level-3 quarantine biological agent. So it's somewhat understandable that they aren't perfect when using protective gear. Unfortunately viruses aren't forgiving if you, for example, accidentally touch the outside of your gloves or headgear.

Source - wife works with level 1 and 2 biological agents
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Long story short - removing gowns and gloves without contaminating yourself is much more difficult than one would think after working your 8-10 hour shift, if you're lucky. Also it is not "common" and many medical staff get lenient with the proper way to ungown. Also what /u/keertus has stated.

I'm a healthcare IT analyst. I sit in on a lot of meetings, technical and clinical. This has been a nearly constant discussion as of late.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Because Ebola patients eject copious amounts of shit and vomit.  Which has to be cleaned up by the heath care professional.  This generally only effects people in the medical profession caring for patients or those with out modern plumbing and sanitation.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I am not a nurse or a physician. I work in the gross lab. We deal with a lot of cancer and any tissue that you may have removed. The threat if Ebola, in my opinion, is very under estimated. Incubation times have not been obviously studied and it's really unclear how quickly people can transmit the disease. The cdc says anywhere from 2 to 21 days. But the biggest threat is taking off protective gear. Obviously protecting yourself is important. However the protocol to remove protective gear is a bunch if garbage. Basically if you touch any protective gear that has been exposed, you should wash your hands. Most anti microbial soaps only lift germs and viruses off if your hands, they do not kill. The advantage of bio hazard suites is they have one zipper in the back where the whole suite can be removed. This is done by a buddy. Beforehand they can clean the zipper are with chlorinated disinfectant. This is what works. But it's not what the cdc calls necessary .
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I recently got to observe a seminar on Ebola at a local hospital.  As a student nurse, my professor thought it would be an excellent experience to observe something that everybody was seeing and hearing in the news.  During this seminar, the infection control nurse ran though a demonstration of how to properly Don and remove the "specialized" Ebola ppe.  The demonstration was done by two veteran ER nurses. As this was going on, the nurses at the seminar kept pointing out how many issues there we're with potential contamination of clean surfaces. The response from the infection control nurse was "we will have to alter this as we go and as the cdc updates their guidelines". Even though the potential for an Ebola infection is essentially zero for this area, that is still certainly a nerve racking statement and mentality.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Bodily fluids includes saliva. A sneeze and cough can potentially launch said fluid up to 3 meters at pretty fast velocity. There are some videos on youtube with super slow mo documenting this. 

As just people in general, although health care professionals are trained, they still have a general tendency to touch their face etc. Just pay attention to your own hands and see how many times in the next hour you will touch your face without really thinking about it. 

That being said, Ebola is much harder to contract than the flu. It is scary considering the fatality rate is ~70% with current strain, but overall, the flu will kill more people in NA this year than Ebola by a far margin. So, get your flu shots.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Being a healthcare worker who has currently been trained in donning and doffing PPE per CDC guidelines, it is damn near impossible to take off all the PPE we are supposed to wear without contaminating yourself and the surrounding area.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: It essentially boils down to human error. The medical staff so something procedurally wrong and end up infected. The virus isn't infecting them through the gear. The doctors are messing up so that it's like the gear isn't there.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Improper equipment removal. In their training, they'll put chocolate syrup on their gloves and then attempt to remove their suits. If any syrup gets on their body, they've done it wrong.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: 1.) Mistakes happen

2.) Mistakes happen when taking off/discarding all of the protective measures you put in place. They work wonders when worn properly, but they need to be taken off very carefully. 

3.) Mistakes happen when people wear too much protective clothing. So Ebola is not that contagious, you don't need a full protective suit with trailing oxygen line and all that jazz. But for some reason people keep wearing them and these suits are great for protecting you, but increase the chances that you'll make a mistake because of the decreased field of vision, sensory awareness, decreased tactile feel for objects, etc. Basically if you're handling needles, a needle prick might be more likely to happen if you can't pay attention/be aware of your surroundings. 

The best way to prevent exposure is to only wear what you need and to know exactly how to take it off and to follow that procedure at all times.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: 1. put on a pair of latex exam gloves
2. dip your hands in paint almost to the top of the gloves
3. take them off without getting any of the wet paint on your skin
4. imagine how dangerous it is with "invisible paint," i.e., if the surface of the gloves is contaminated with Ebola viruses without visible blood/body fluids to indicate that

That's why Ebola can infect people who understand the risks while not infecting household contacts of sick people. Victims go quickly from not-sick/not-contagious to deathly-ill/very contagious, and the only people still touching them once they're comatose and need their bloody diapers changed are health care personnel.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: In the final stages, that direct contact is *very* dangerous. And bodily fluids include everything, including sweat. And these people are in contact with, and need to handle, patients at the precise point when the disease is at its most infectious. As I understand it, if you're unlucky it can only take one tiny mistake - bare skin touching something that touched something that touched the patient, for example. Or a minor, accidental tear in the wrong place in your one use, disposable garments, that no-one notices. And however professional and careful people are, mistakes and accidents always happen.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Hubris. 

The same hubris that downplayed the likelihood that it would even reach the US, the same hubris that did not adequately prepare hospitals and medical staff when it did, and the same hubris that continues to allow those coming from Ebola-infected areas into the US without so much as a check up. Also the same hubris that keeps saying "It's really hard to catch Ebola, nothing to worry about".

It's also really hard to kill yourself with a gun that's not loaded, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't treat it like it is....
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: it is NOT difficult to contract, it's actually easy to contract. Sweat is a bodily fluid that can be infectious, so can sneezes, coughs, and even saliva. Ebola can be spread from an infected person to others if the healthy person touches a surface an ebola patient has touched. 

Don't believe this bullshit that this is not easy to spread. It is easy to spread, it's hard to contain. In times past we've managed to contain the outbreaks, this one is out of control and keeps trying to jump out of the effected area
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I work for a hospital and can give you an idea. Basically our procedures have us double up on gloves and than wear usual personal protection. The difference here is after every piece of protective wear you take off you need to hand wash and/or disinfect everything. They even recommend bleach wiping your shoes even though they were covered. It's about a 25-30 minute procedure. Now when you are in a rush as many nurses are you cut corners because well it won't happen to you.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: During the acute phase of infection, the patient is highly contagious. The patient's blood can contain up to 100 billion virus per milliliter. The infectious dose for Ebola virus appears to be very low (1-10 organisms). While the medical professionals take precautions, their work involve frequent contact with bodily fuild and removal of the protective gear. If you considers all these things together, you can see why medical staff die. Not really ELI5 but I hope this help.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Those gowns are impossible to use perfectly, every time. If you're a nurse of an Ebola patient, you're spending hours cleaning up the vomit, diarrhea, and blood, etc, of the patient. You're spending hours surrounded by the virus that is extremely infective, and are more at risk every second, praying that no shit particles or cough droplets make their way through the seams on the plasticky sheet that's supposed to save you.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Think of it like this:

Soldiers wear a lot of body armor, and are less likely to die when being shot at than you or I, since odds are, they are well protected against most bullets flung at them... But they also have a lot more bullets flung at them on a regular basis, so are much more likely to die by being shot.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The two nurses were poorly trained and equipped. Moreover they did not know he had confirmed ebola until after they had contact with him.

The Dr in NY was treating multiple patients in austere conditions.

In both cases it's insane to think that when you lack training AND adequate PPE that you *won't* get ebola
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The true question is... why has no one BUT trained medical professionals (here in the US, anyway) contracted the disease? That's also your answer (they're the ones with the closest contact with a person when they're at their most contagious).

All these other explanations do nothing for your average 5 year old.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: As a health care professional, I see people on a daily basis wiping their face off/touching light switches/brushing away their hair/all kinds of other things with contaminated gloves. With ebola, it takes one "oops!" to be infected.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: As said before, nurses and doctors have to come in contact with body fluids one way or another. Most likely they're wearing a protective suit, but when removing that suit many times they accidentally expose themselves.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Ebola has very very high concentrations of virus particles.  I drop of blood of an aids patient has maybe a million virus particles.  A drop of bodily fluids of an Ebola patient has ten billion.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: There's a neat video floating around out there in which a doctor uses chocolate sauce on a protective suit to show how easy it is to get fluid on yourself when taking the suit off.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The fact that they are dealing with a person who is projectile vomiting and projectile shitting and are probably weeping from every hole or opening usually doesn't help
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Try to concentrate very hard on your work and not touch your face a single time in the space of one hour.  It's harder than you think.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: As someone who works first hand in health care: Just because something is legally required/established protocol in a hospital does not mean it's going to be done
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Good stuff so far. Here's my stab. The answer to your question actually requires me to return to your question. The reason medical pros get infected is because they aren't truly "trained" and the equipment often isn't all that good. Breakdown below. 


Training. Yes they *have received training* to handle this type of event but they don't regularly and rigorously practice and rehearse and *sustain* these skills in a realistic training environment. They do the equivalent of a player entering the NBA and deciding they've made it big and don't need to regularly practice free throws when fatigued, sweaty, and stressed at the end of every training session. Yes they'll still be able to make free throws because it's a simple basketball task but they won't be nearly as good when it truly matters. 

Equipment. They surely do have enhanced equipment for these events but is it truly modern, ie the latest and greatest equipment that's refreshed and updated regularly? No. Medical facilities only periodically update their rarely used gear. A decent analogy is the military. Compare today's military gear to that which was seen advancing toward Baghdad last decade. Today's soldiers look like space warriors because there was suddenly a need, and a budget, to constantly have the latest and greatest great at all times. Everything from trucks to guns to body armor to glasses to gloves has been updated and re-updated since then and the troops back in 2003 were actually using what at the time was "the latest and greatest equipment from the last 5-10 years which will work for now but we need new shit." This essentially boils down to money and it affects every public and private organization. 

Edit. ELI3: because they came into contact with infected bodily fluids despite trying to be careful.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The CDC has said several times that Ebola is not airborne. Their [guideline for transmission](_URL_4_) states that contact with an infected person's bodily fluid is the only way.  However, the medical definition of airborne is when a virus can remain in the air (or on surfaces) for long periods of time. (IE, you have the flu and sneeze on your keyboard, then sometime later a co-worker uses it) Ebola cannot.
[This](_URL_3_) researcher explains why direct contact with a patient could result in transmission through the air, which technically would not be classified medically as "airborne"
 > "I think that what they are trying to convey with the idea that 'it's not airborne' is that you likely need to be relatively close to the person where there are some bodily fluids present," says Rachael Jones, who studies infectious disease transmission at the University of Illinois at Chicago.

 > She says if someone down the hall from you had Ebola and threw up vomit that contains the virus, "those particles are not going to travel hundreds of feet or hundreds of meters to cause an infection."

 > But if a health care worker or a family member gets very close to someone who has a lot of symptoms, which is when people with Ebola are most contagious, Jones says droplets of body fluid could potentially travel through the air for short distances.

 > "If you vomit there are projectile droplets that could spray up," she notes.

 > And she says there's reason to be concerned that an Ebola patient might produce even smaller droplets that someone in close quarters could inhale and get sick from  during medical procedures like putting in a breathing tube.

Edit: Formatting
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Hi, just an example: When my daughter was 2 years old, she got Rota-Virus. It is pretty nasty, because you lose fluid and electrolytes through diarrhea and vomiting. It can be transmitted through fluids and air. We took her to the infection hospital and my wife spent the night there. I took over in the morning. Our daughter was pumped with fluids and electrolytes (IV) throughout the night and in the morning she recovered enough to be hungry. I was allowed to take her home on the same day. My wife got the symptoms that very day. I got them one day later. Here I can state that I never contracted anything else from my daughter  virosis or flu, despite taking care of her when she got it. It is simply the fact that when you change diapers 20 times a day, there is a good chance youll miss something and get it into your system. I lost 6 kg in 4 days, feeling my body being drained of fluids. Good thing is that as a grown man, you can force yourself to drink and eat despite the symptoms and push through.  I have heard of grown people being hospitalized because of Rota-Virus and I dont think that it can compete with Ebola any more than sniffles do. I learned to appreciate child creme at the time. Wiping 20 times a day can be...sandpapery. :)
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Let me try to explain the logic here.***

The elevated risk for health professionals isn't limited to Ebola.  Hospitals are, ironically, high risk places to get sick.  Patients recovering for extended periods in hospitals, especially those taking antibiotics that kill most of the natural, balanced, healthy bacteria in our bodies, are more likely to get sick during their stay than they would at home. Increased risk of infection is especially true if you're a healthcare worker.  They are directly exposed to contagious people and a bacteria/virus-filled environment more than your average person.  

It's not really *because* it's Ebola; it simply makes sense that people with direct exposure to the fluids of a sick person are more likely to get sick from them.  It's the same with most any illness.  

Ebola in particular isn't easy to spread, but it is extremely infectious.  The distinction is that while it's harder to physically spread around, just one glob of infected mucus or one pinprick of an infected needle is enough to compromise a healthy immune system.  

So, while you're not likely to get Ebola from sitting near someone with it, you are likely to get it if you ingest their mucus or blood.  (gross!)

^^^^*** ^^^^I ^^^^am ^^^^not ^^^^an ^^^^expert
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Mental fatigue and the misplaced assumption of infallibility. 


Ask yourself why so many people get horrible infections, like c. difficile, during hospital stays every year - even though basic antiseptic hand washing easily prevents the spread of infection.

Worse yet, typically those with compromised immune systems, and the elderly tend to get c.diff far more easily, and those persons are so fragile to begin with  - the infection can quite easily flick that first domino that starts them on a downward struggle to a premature end.  

The sheer number of people who move around hospitals as infection vectors makes controlling infection extremely difficult.  It's not just doctors and nurses.   Maintenance workers, housekeeping, orderlies that perform patient transport, support staff delivering meals, and swarms of friends and family visiting.   All these people touch handrails, doorknobs, elevator buttons, and walk past those GoJo santiizing foam dispensers with nary a second thought.  

Hospitals are **great** places to get sick.

Source:  Elderly father got c.diff every third trip to the hospital.

Work for company in the health industry that has stats on this stuff.  Not comfortable saying more.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The hardest part of pathogen isolation is when removing the protective gear worn while in contact with patients. In some hospitals in Africa, they bathe the doctors/nurses with what is essentially slightly deluded chlorine-bleach after every layer of protective gear is removed. This same protocol was not adopted in the US, however they have methods that are just as effective. It is relatively difficult to isolate the pathogen from every single layer, every single time someone exits an isolation room with a patient. Some of the virus may have accidentally been transferred in that period.

As an example of this, you can put on a pair of rubber gloves and cover your hands in chocolate syrup. Now, try to take off the gloves without getting any syrup on your skin. It's pretty tricky, but not impossible, but imagine having to do that multiple times per day. Again, not impossible, but its relatively easy to slip up once. 

Source: most of family works in health care around the country.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: People want to blame the doctors, but you're underestimating the situation. In affected African countries there are many people with florid Ebola infection producing large amounts of diarrhea and bodily fluids that they cohort in units not equipped to deal with this kind of situation. Infection controls depends on not just doctor and nurses but the people that clean the "rooms". The clean-up after someone shat the bed is not easy and small amounts barely visible after an inadequate clean up is what causes the problem. 

In the US we'll do fine controlling this. It's not as hardy as c. diff infection from what I understand. It's in a range similar to other infections like meningitis, influenza, viral diarrhea outbreaks. The cases in texas were also very high risk exposure. Unfortunately the index case had a 103 fever, and being a nurse to a patient means you are placing an IV, collecting urine, stool samples, checking vitals including a rectal temperature. It's very close contact.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I was reading something last weekend. I forget where, but it was a nurse explaining how easy it is to become infected with Ebola, even if you're wearing modern top of the line equipment. She volunteered for some infectious disease training, and said that when in the suit and it's properly secure, and all entry points are taped over multiple times, you're safe. The problem is when you take it off. Not only that, but your vision is altered, and it gets super hot in those things. So, when you're taking it all off, it needs to be done in teams. The process of safely removing the equipment can take 30-40 minutes. 

So imagine, you're in this suit and you're burning up. Maybe you have someone helping you. Maybe you don't. Not only that, you're in an area where the virus is out of control. It's just very likely that you may come in contact with it.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: There're two distinct concepts at play, contagious and infectious. Contagious refers to how easily the disease is transmitted. If it stays on surfaces after someone touches it, can be spread through the air, etc. Infectious refers to how much virus needs to be present in order to infect someone. Ebola is highly infectious but not that contagious. The virus can only be spread by bodily fluids after a person has enough of the virus to show clear signs that they are sick. So the person can't wander around unknowingly infecting people. Unfortunately only a few virus bodies are required to infect someone, because it is good at evading the immune system. Hospital workers are exposed to the bodily fluids at the worst possible time, increasing their risk. The people most at risk of catching it are those that care for an Ebola victim. It's really sad. Tend to the sick, and put yourself in danger.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I spent one year training as an EMT-Paramedic, and four years working as an EMT-Paramedic in a paid capacity.  The Blood borne Pathogens training is the module that would cover protecting yourself from pathogens such as Ebola.  Trust me when I tell you that the training is worse than a joke.  The course material is accurate, but the instructors' delivery and testing was simply a formality.  A 'going through the motions', if you will.  Most of the class attendees couldn't have cared less about the course content; they were just there to get the required continuing education credits so they could keep their professional certifications.  It would not surprise me if the infected health care workers had absolutely no clue about the proper procedures and practices regarding how to isolate themselves from the Ebola virus.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The other replies in this thread cover it well, but...

There's a lot of conflicting information out there, causing confusion. Part of this is the usual suspects of gossip/cable news/ etc, but this time the people in charge are also part of the problem- their priorites are:
1. Prevent ebola panic
2. Prevent ebola infections

In that order. That's why NPR's article about R0 (Or R-naught) is getting shared, despite that metric being a really poor choice for measuring transmissability. Reading it, you're left with the laughable conclusion that HIV is easier to spread than Ebola (or that Hep C is less contagious than HIV). Just wrong. Better metrics would focus on minimum dose to cause infection, or method of transmission, or how long the virus survives outside a living host. 

_URL_5_
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Something thats really bothering is me is the fact that nobody is taking into consideration that he contracted it outside of a hospital, i.e. in a taxi in Guinea, or a store there, or in any other public crowded place.  Although its likely he did contract it at the hospital, there are thousands of ways he could have gotten it. It can be a random chain of events.  Maybe it was another healthcare worker who was careless and spread the virus on surfaces of the hospital that should have been safe (maybe a door handle, a desk, even a pen). The unfortunate thing here though, is that the more and more people that contract the disease, the more likely it is that people make careless decisions and can infect more people.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Probably too late now but I work at hospital and have had so much preparation for this in the past few weeks. Apparently the issue lies in that you can wear all the protective equipment in the world, it just has to be put on correctly but even more importantly removed properly as well. A lot of the contamination is occurring because when the medical staff removes the safety gown, booties, mask and gloves they are susceptible to coming in contact with a contaminated piece. I'm guessing its like that because when you're putting on the suit you'd be extra careful as you would when you're in the room with a contaminated patient but would most likely let your guard once you feel safe again removing it.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Well, if my experiences shadowing in a family medicine clinic are any indication, the cumulative effects of lax attention due to fatigue ("I'm sick/haven't slept in 36 hours/haven't eaten all day, but my patients need me") and arrogance ("I'm a medical professional; of course I know what I'm doing") are enough.

Long story short, I've seen a doctor allow a scabies patient to disrobe and remain seated in the regular chair instead of the exam table that gets sanitized after every visit, then examine the rash barehanded, and go straight to the next patient without hand hygiene. Let's just say I'm as surprised at the rash of ebola infections among healthcare workers as I am about the recent scabies outbreak in my area.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: HERE IS THE REASON!  It is a droplet-borne virus, meaning that ANY of the tiny particles of a sneeze can carry a live virus that can infect.  MEANING that if an infected person sneezes in their hands, then touches a doorknob, then you touch the doorknob and then touch your eye or nose, you might get infected.  Sneezes spew millions of particles that you can't see all over the room, and Ebola gives you FLU symptoms - you are sneezing and coughing all over the place!!! 

No, it's not airborne, but sneeze droplets can travel a few feet and land in your eye or mouth without you ever realizing it!
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: An Ebola patient is like a time bomb. When it goes off infectious body fluid is actively expelled from all over the body, including through the skin, at a rate of up to 5-10 L per day. At that point it's very contagious. Fortunately that doesn't happen until the very last stage of infection, near and past the point of death. That is why health care workers have the highest risk exposure. To contain an outbreak infected people need to be isolated before they get to this late stage. The problem in west Africa is that they have virtually no healthcare infrastructure so, they couldn't do this.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Complacency has a lot to do with it.  I work in the medical field and you would be amazed how often I see people caring for a patient, handling bodily fluids with no gloves on.  The longer someone does something the greater risk of an error.  This could even be as simple as replacing your mask regularly, checking gloves for holes before using then, proper hygiene, etc.  Don't rule out the amount of exposure either.  If you work as a nurse in a hospital you're at a far greater risk of getting the flu than a construction worker because of the frequency of exposure.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I was adding a receptacle in a hospital as an electrician. The room was where they had pieces of people and they examined them while talking into a recorder. The technician was examining this piece of spleen, then went over and opened a cabinet without taking his gloves off.

I don't know, maybe everyone in that room knows to leave their gloves on when opening that cabinet, but it seemed to me that would be a major breach of the rules regarding dealing with the bodily pieces of diseased humans.

Edit: It was the histopathology room, if I remember right.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I'm in healthcare and what we've been told with these healthcare workers getting ebola is that it's often improperly using PPE (personal protective equipment).  There is a very specific procedure for putting on AND taking off the PPE, which includes double gloves, tape, impermeable floor protection, etc.  You also need a buddy to help/watch to make sure you do it right.  And you have to check your own vitals because the gear gets hot and suffocating...A lot of room for errors, especially if you're dealing with the numbers of patients in the outbreak over there!
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: First, I think there are bodily fluids everywhere because of the conditions. Overcrowded and under staffed.  While I am sure they try to keep things clean, keeping things sanitized is a different challenge.  Second, the protective equipment is not a completely sealed system.  Skin can be exposed from moving around, for example at the neck.  Gloves can also develop small holes that go unnoticed for a while.  Third, taking the protective gear off without contaminating yourself is hard.  It should be done with two people but even then you would need to be very careful
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Everyone can try this at home.

Put on a jacket, hat, pants of a thin material of some sort, some sort of mask or skimask, plastic bags on your shoes and gloves. It will replicate the PPE (personal protective equipment) that people commonly wear.

Now try to get all of that off without having any part of your exposed body or underlying clothes actually touch the outside part of your make-shift PPE. It's a lot harder than you think.

There are procedures in place to safely take off PPE... but mistakes happen, and easily.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: My friend who is a VON in Ontario, Canada has just been losing her shit about this. Her colleagues just lack fundamental common sense to use regular, expected safety protocols. How can one of the top comments on here say that nurses use "no gloves" and people aren't going bananas?
You're dealing with a patient's fluids?  WEAR GLOVES. AND wash your hands after. 

Shit. Semmelweis figured this out YEARS ago. 
With something so serious, so close to home, any nurse choosing to opt out of protocol is dumb.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: People make mistakes. And even when they don't, flukes happen. Could be a number of things. I worked pest control for years and while we weren't supposed to get pesticide on the skin, were trained to avoid it and were wearing the proper PPE (Personal protective equipment) it still happens. I imagine with something like a virus the chances of an accident are even higher. At least with my compressed air sprayer I knew where the contaminant was coming from.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The nurses taking care of Ebola patients are not too tired to be safe. The adrenaline from taking care of an Ebola patient and fear of contracting this disease keeps them alert. They also do not touch their face with isolation gear on. Nurses wear gloves for almost everything and every nurse can relate to the itchy nose that always seems to occur as soon as gloves are applied. You just let it itch. Source: I'm a nurse
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Hospital employee here. Of course we all use personal protective equipment for cases like this (i.e gowns, mask, goggles, and gloves). To my understanding the strongest theory out there is that the employees who got infected were removing their own PPE the wrong way, probably something as simple as brushing the outside of their gown against their forearm. 

The problem with health care is people expect perfection when the grim reality is we can only hope for perfection.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I mean the nurse who contracted it that was caring for the texas patient received from when they first got the call about his ebola. At the time, they didn't know for a fact that he had ebola, so they weren't wearing hazmat suits. When the call came in to pick him up, she came in contact with some of his saliva and it seeped into her pores. It's very easy to contract, despite popular belief.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: My mom's husband had a stroke on monday morning. When I went to the hospital I watched the physical therapy doctor rub her nose with the glove on. Then touch his feet to check for sensation. Then touch his hands. Made him touch his face. Rubbed her hands on his face (to check for sensation). Then she scratched her chin. 

I just kept thinking how could you be so bad about this?
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Direct contact with bodily fluids includes folk with Ebola coughing and ejecting an aerosol cloud of viral laden micro drops all over the place. 

These are humid countries they are coming from in Africa too. Being constantly covered head to toe in layers of scrubs is brutal, and I imagine they just get fatigued and make mistakes.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: From what I've read, several reason.

1.  Ebola looks like the flu, it gets misdiagnosed a lot.

2.  People with Ebola spew fluids constantly from every orifice.  

3.  Getting in and out of protective gear is a very precise procedure and people make mistakes.

4.  Lots of medical people treating patients don't have the correct gear.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Imagine this: get dressed in layers, covering head to toe including gloves and a big mask.

Then stay inside where the temperature is 68-72.

After an hour you can leave the room, but first you are doused in blue paint. 

Now try to take off all of your layers without getting paint on yourself.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Medical professionals are people too, meaning they can be smart and idiots simultaneously. 

In this case they are smart in that they know its unlikely they will encounter, let alone contract Ebola, but stupid enough to not be on alert for it and contract it from infected people before they figure out what's wrong.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I have a friend who is doing PhD/MD in Texas and he told me that when I enter the hospital I would also see it but he said you would be surprised on how many mistakes doctors and nurses make and how much protocol is skipped or forgotten or just not followed properly.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Taking the equipment off is the most difficult part. That's where transmission is occurring. If you've never had the pleasure of changing a brief with explosive diarrhea we'll let me just say it can be messy. Plus we tend to make unconscious movements with our hands. It happens. Even to pros.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: There is a difference between being contagious and infectious. Ebola is very infectious if you come in contact with it you are likely to get the disease. It is not very contagious meaning it is hard to come in contact with it especially in the early stages of the disease.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Same reason why professional drivers get in more accidents per year then non-professional drivers - they're around it more. They might be less likely than the average citizen, thanks to the medical equipment you mention, but they're more likely because they're dealing with ebola more frequently.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Nurse here. Most diseases are transmitted in the incubation stage before a patient shows signs of symptoms. The patient in Texas had been to hospital before and no one knew he had ebola, so they figured there was no need to take precautions.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: When personnel come out and remove their gear, why aren't they put in a shower stall and sprayed with a light bleach water solution. Wouldn't this clean off and disinfect their gear enough to bring down the risk of accidental contamination?
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: taking off a safety suit has to be done with a lot of care to avoid contact, pretend you have been wearing this bubble for 2 - 3 hours your very hot and tried and want to get out.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I've heard, now this is just from the grapevine, that golden shower and scat parties are all the rage at hospitals at the moment, so I'd guess that's why they spread to medical staff as 'easily' as they do.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: dont Ebola patients produce an insane amount of contaminated waste? sure you have to have direct contact but they're producing way more liquid than normal, right? maybe the 24 hour news cycle is just confusing me
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Direct contact with body fluids isn't all that hard. Somebody coughs or sneezes on you. I don't know why there's this strange campaign to discourage people from being cautious about serious illnesses. Wash your damn hands.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: It isn't all that difficult to transmit. Direct contact with bodily fluids is extremely easy. 

MANY common diseases require contact with bodily fluids for transmission, it's a misconception that it is a hindrance to pathogenicity.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Put ink on your hands now try to take off your protective gear without getting ink on anything else. You will see that the ink transfers. Now switch the ink for an invisible virus.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: They are in contact with these patients BEFORE the patient is confirmed to have the disease so many of these providers are not taking the necessary precautions at the time they contract the disease.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: In an extremely ELI5, it's not very contagious, but extremely infectious. Meaning it's not easy to be in contact with something contagious, but the things that are contagious can very easily infect you.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I can't look up the exact figure this second, but as I understand it, Ebola can live outside the body for a pretty long time for a virus, too, if I recall correctly.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Hey, it's supposed to be about as hard to get as HIV, but when's the last time you saw medical workers using full-on hazmat suits while treating an HIV patient?

Think about that.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: It's like the pink capsule you got in school when you learned to brush your teeth. There's a fuck-ton of cleaning you have to do to get rid of all of it.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Here's a Huff Post article from a trained professional. 
_URL_6_
She explains how the hazmat suits needs EXTREME care both taken on and off the body it's an informed article.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: This seems like someone playing Plague Inc. who has upgraded all of the symptoms but none of the transmissions.

No shame - had to look up how to spell Plague.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Because those people have a lot more contact with infected fluids than the general populace. The more contact, the higher the risk as with any other infectious disease, including HIV.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The more time you spend exposed to bodily fluids, the more likely you're going to make a mistake. It only takes something like 10 individual virii to infect someone.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: I feel like when they remove the safety gear, they get it then. Just my gut tells me that this is the weak point in the defense
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: People forget that sweat is also a bodily fluid. So just touching their bare skin and if they have even sweat a little, then boom.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: They touch their face or wounds with contaminated hands. That's why you see Liberian health workers  continually spray their gloves and suits with chlorine.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The PPE/safety gear isn't removed properly, thus getting ebola on their hands and later in their blood stream via eye or mouth contact.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: As an RN I can not even answer this question.

There is no way they should have been exposed via bodily fluids, period.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Ebola fetishists joining DoctorsWithoutBorders to form romantic relationships with Ebola victims.

Either that or the CDC and Obama are dirty fucking liars.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Because Ebola causes 5 to 10 liters of liquid diarrhea per day, and Nurses are the ones cleaning it up.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Man,kinda wish Chris Christie had read this threas before doing his bullshittt press conference and acting all tough and shit
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: From what I've heard, the US medical professionals have not been taking the safety / biohazard protocols seriously enough.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: The difference between a doctor and God is that God doesn't think he's a doctor.

Arrogance usually preceded sloppiness.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: SHHH SHHH SHHH you're not supposed to ask logical questions like that or you'll be accused of racism!
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Don't try to blame the doctors and nurses. Don't even think about it, OP
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Do you realize that the vast majority of medical personnel didn't contract Ebola, right?
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: since when in history is 'bodily fluids' not easy to contract?
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Because they get itchy noses just like the rest of us.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Anyone that is infected has fluids coming out the wazoo.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Just because they are educated doesn't mean they are smart.
question: If Ebola is so difficult to transmit (direct contact with bodily fluids), how do trained medical professionals with modern safety equipment contract the disease? answer: Pro-tip: they arent trained, and they certainlly aint equiped.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Because you can get away with almost anything in this country if you claim it's against your religion.  Parents have let their children die, literally die, because they didn't "believe" in modern medicine.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Because driving is a privilege that is earned and education is a right. Compulsory vaccinations also imply the state has a right to violate bodily privacy in return for basic rights. 

NOTE: I'm in favor of vaccinations and believe they work.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Because the US respects freedom of choice in medical matters. While there are certainly limits on this, because of some unethical physicians treating patients, we've swung on a pendulum toward patient-focused care--i.e., the patient more or less selects from a menu of options presented by the more-or-less advising but not commanding doctor. There are also religious reasons why someone may avoid vaccines, as well as allergic reasons, but that last one should be obvious. 

On another note, the vaccines have a minimal risk to them, that you may negate by not being vaccinated. Whereas there isn't any benefit to smoking or not using child restraints. 

All that said, I wish vaccines were mandatory. They have an excellent safety record, and are probably on par with penicillin in how successful they have been. 

However, a very vocal minority creates a great deal of trouble in confusing the incidence of diseases like autism and usage of vaccines. Blindly thinking that the rise of two things means that those two things are therefore causally linked, they have missed the statistical fact that we've only begun to characterize autism, and therefore its incidence rises naturally. If you pay attention to something, naturally you see it more often than if you don't. 

Choice is often an excellent thing. Some people think that the benignity of these childhood diseases is better than what they think the vaccines cause. However, they often miss the fact that, while the initial disease itself is benign, the disease may cause severe health problems later on. For instance, measles may cause male infertility. This won't be caught until much later, and I'm pretty sure some men are going to be quite upset at this eventual outcome because of their parents' choices in not vaccinating them.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: ELI5: why do people keep posting loaded rhetorical questions on eli5?
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: There is a really important part of U.S. belief system that revolves around the concept of the role of government, especially in terms of whether the government has the right to dictate individual parts of any given persons life - whether it be taxes, work-hour requirements, seatbelt laws, drinking ages, etc.

The idea that the government, state or federal, can mandate or require that you *must* undergo a medical treatment can seem to many a significant overstep of what government is supposed to do. It's a scary thought because it would lay the groundwork for additional government-required medical treatments, regardless of a persons personal beliefs. Especially as the U.S. operates under a 'winner-take-all' political system, the minority could find themselves faced with compulsory medical treatments regardless of personal beliefs. Think of the issues ongoing with pro-life vs pro-choice - depending on how the state/city government decides to swing, one of those two sides is going to have a bad time, which can lead to a lot of extended and deepened animosity.

This creates a rather complicated system - you want people to be vaccinated as it is important to help mitigate or eliminate the effects of infectious diseases, but you also want to respect a persons right to personal independence. Compromising one for the sake of the other can create a lot of political tension in either direction that is not easily settled.

Now, that's the federal level - at the state level, it can be easier. You have a smaller segment of the population you are dealing with, so creating legislation that deals with these issues is easier. For example, you may not be able to demand that all children be vaccinated, but you *can* pass legislation (with public support) mandating that entry into a public school system from K - 12 requires a certain set of baseline vaccinations. Not everyone is mandated to get them - but if you want into a public school, you have to get those baseline vaccinations.

Things like child restraints or smoking age-limits had their own political turmoil during their own time periods for the same reasons - the fight between government-mandates and personal freedom is fairly constant, and depending on your ideology, not easily resolved.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Because government mandated vaccines would mean that the government can legislate what can and can not go into my body, and that of my children. The government being given a higher authority than the citizens in regards to their own bodies is a scary thought.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: This question was just an attempt to spark a
Circlejerk.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Stop asking loaded questions, you know damn well why.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Another loaded question post, where you're just making a politically-charged statement.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure vaccines aren't free, which would be a good first reason they aren't mandatory.

Second, while vaccines don't cause autism, unlike seat belts, they can still have negative side effects. It's a general rule of thumb that anything with a potential negative effect will never become mandatory for every person

Third, while the pros of vaccines usually outweigh the cons by a large margin, making the choice a no-brainer for many, the risk of dying thanks to not vaccinating is still a lot lower than dying in a car crash, even if you're wearing a seat belt, so I don't think it could be ruled as reckless endangerment.

Fourth, thank's to evolving diseases, vaccines are constantly changing.  Regardless of how safe we've found our current vaccines to be, ones developed fifty years from now could contain risks we didn't anticipate now.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: It started as a religious exemption. Some religions (i.e. Christian Science) object to vaccinations for long established doctrinal reasons. States that require vaccinations for schools made exceptions to accommodate people with religious objections, so as to not have a parent object that their first amendment right of freedom of religion were being limited in some way. 

No religion (well, none I'm aware of) bars driving with a seat belt on or allowing children to smoke, so similar objections cannot be made. 

It's really only become a problem in the last few years as parents began to think that the potential benefits of vaccinations no longer outweighed the potential risks. 

Note: I vaccinated my kids.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: I can imagine that some of it is because not being vaccinated is a "natural" state.  We evolved to deal with it ourselves, and the majority of kids can fight off the diseases. However, a simple majority on your side is a shitty reason to not take precautions (a 24week fetus has a 51% chance of surviving outside the womb, but we sure as hell don't allow elective c-sections that early).

Being in a car is not a natural state, so the argument of "my kid was built to fight this off" can't apply when we're talking about going through the windshield.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Simply put, because here we have Freedom. We have the freedom not to be forced into injecting our kids with something, even if the scientific community asserts it's 100% safe. On the other hand, you have many people working to take away that freedom for "the greater good" so we lose some freedoms when it comes to the 'smoking age' and child restraints.

It boils down to balancing the scale of "the greater good" versus personal liberties. America is founded on personal liberties which is why some of us fight so hard to keep them.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Because the Supreme Court of the United States has declared that people have the right to make their own healthcare decisions, and that parents are legally entrusted to make proper healthcare decisions for their children.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Honestly, our government is so corrupt that the idea of government mandated medication of any kind is pretty frightening.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: It might go back to when individual freedoms were more important to the average American. I think vaccinations are a good idea but I think the government mandating a medicine of any kind is a horrible idea.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: It's not a law, but where I live, the school system requires that students are vaccinated. If someone doesn't vaccinate their children, they would have to homeschool them.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: If most people are immunized then you get something called herd immunity in a population - communicable diseases cannot spread if most people are immune even if a few are not immune, as the probability of them each encountering one another is low. So the right of the parents (religious, body rights, whatever) are balanced with the needs of the population. Other factors come into play of course - for example If parents refused to immunize their child for tetanus (relatively uncommon) it would likely be permitted, but if that child stepped on a rusty nail (dirty wounds are a huge risk factor for tetanus) a physician could (and would) invoke the power of the state and immunize the child without parental consent.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: When you send your child to public school you submit a record of their immunizations. If you choose not to have your child vaccinated then you sign a form saying you object to vaccines for personal or religious reasons. Schools know which students are not vaccinated for which diseases and can bar them from attending school during an outbreak. [Here](_URL_0_) is an article the NY times ran yesterday about a Judge upholding a school's decision to bar students from attending
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Might as well put mandatory Breathalyzer  ignition systems in every car also... And install narcotic detectors in all our toilets to protect us from ourselves... Let's make it so you need a licence to have a child... Let's install CCTV cameras in everyone's house so the government can protect us.... Oh and by the way... Let's let the government forcefully inject us with any medication/chemical they deem necessary.. That would be awesome!
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: I believe that it has to do with a perceived level of responsibility and thusly population that accepts a certain level of intrusion of a governing body.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Something called "FREEDOM" , I immunized my children by choice and appreciate that I had that choice.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Making a law creates a situation when there is no exceptions and some children can not be vaccinated. For example many vaccines contains eggs or other proteins that a child may be allergic to. Or simply a child may have some immune or other condition that make unsafe to get the vaccinated. 
When people opt for not vaccinating their children , they actually putting these kids into risk. 
Anyway, you can not mandate things that  some people actually have a valid reason not to do.  Also there is some minimal risk to each vaccines. You can not force something on everybody that can harm some children.

 Although I may add there are countries, where they actually mandate some of the vaccinations unless the parent present valid reason like allergy papers sent to the health authorities.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Because medicine doesn't provide visible protection from a visible hazard.

We can comprehend the idea of a car crash and a child flying through the windshield. We understand that accidents can happen. The cause and the effect are very apparent to us. With sickness, on the other hand, we assume that the cause is limited only to basic hygienics and common sense [i.e. don't literally eat shit]. Because so many people are vaccinated, the idea of your child contracting something like measles seems impossible as long as we wash our hands and keep away from sick people. We don't see or otherwise sense the invisible bacteria and viruses invading our bodies 24/7, so we trust our eyes assume they're just not there.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Ok, I see a lot of misinformation here
An adult has the right to refuse any medical treatment for any reason, unfortunately a side effect of this law is that children, being legally completely under control of their parents, have no say in the shitty decisions their parents make in their health care.
The laws as they were set up make sense for protecting families who do not believe in blood transfusions being given one see Jehovah's witnesses, but now that crazier people have popped up it's a bit of a crap shoot.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: It's because acts are not made illegal in relation to other acts. They're taken on a case by case basis and in the case of the child restraints and smoking age-limits, you had insurance lobbyists and mothers groups that convinced congress to act. Since it's such a hot-button issue, I'd bet that within 12 months we'll see a bill introduced that will make it more difficult, if not illegal, to opt out of vaccinating your children.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: It is because we don't believe in forcing people to do things to themselves just to exist.  I don't defend these parents, but I understand why we don't force people to put a needle in their arms.  You don't have to drive to live, nor do you have to smoke.  But getting vaccinated changes your natural state of being, which is different than your examples.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Most of the time this is how things go:
1. We have the freedom to make a choice on something.
2. A large number of idiots abuse the freedom and/or make the wrong choice to the point that it affects the majority negatively.
3. They make a law mandating the correct choice.
4. People complain that the government is interfering in our lives.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: I believe the correct answer to this is that it takes much more explanation to convince someone that an injection will immunize someone from a disease they may or may not have than to explain to someone how a seat-belt can prevent their organs from rupturing in a high speed car accident.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Because jamming a needle in your arm is a little more invasive than putting a seat belt on. Im for vaccinations but its important that they remain a choice, it seems like it would be a law that could potentially be abused.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: There are no US Federal laws requiring seat belt use or vaccines. These are all state laws, and they vary from state to state.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: Because one deals with purity of essence. That's why my kids are only allowed to drink grain alcohol mixed with rain water. POE.
question: In the US, why is it allowed to potentially expose your child and other's children to deadly diseases through vaccination exemptions but other state mandated laws, such as vehicle child restraints or smoking age-limits, are non-negotiable? answer: If your child is vaccinated then there is nothing to worry about is there.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Stagnating wages, skyrocketing cost of living, poor transportation and heavy traffic make the less-expensive suburbs very difficult to live in while working in the city.  A huge increase in tuition costs resulting in everyone in their 20s being sacked with tens of thousands of dollars of debt.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Lots of good suggestions here, but most people seem to be talking about how we're all worse off. Personally, I disagree.

An obvious one is that lifestyles have changed massively. Everyone now has two cars. The household of the 50s might have had a few luxury goods, now 8-yr olds have iPhones. We go on more holidays, to further places, and spend more. More people go to college, which now costs more. Two people working means we need more childcare, which costs more. We look down upon manual labour, but we're excited for people to have Art History degrees.

Essentially, we don't live the way we used to. Yes, house prices have outpaced wages, but we spend a lot more money on a lot more crap than we used to. People used to read books, now we all have 2 or 3 consoles, cable, multiple televisions, and a kindle if god forbid we deign to actually read. You're probably reading this on your phone, or tablet, or a pc.

Fight Club summarised it nicely, if you ask me - *"Advertising has us chasing cars and clothes, working jobs we hate so we can buy shit we don't need"*

What you call 'good', and what the people 50 years ago called 'good' - they're waaaay different, man.

(we could also discuss the division of wealth, or the population explosion, both of which are equally valid responses)
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: People keep saying, its all the luxuries we expect nowdays that are making it seem like we have less becuse we expect more. So you are telling me that because now i have a smartphone,internet and go out to dinner once a week that all of my disposable income is going there. Please. You are making it sound like people used to just sit at home watching paint dry. People used to purchase expensive stereo equipment instead of a smartphone, they used to go to the bar instead of "racking up data with netflix". The younger generation isn't spending all their money on luxuries that people back then didn't have, the luxuries are just different. Even if we have more nowdays, you can't honestly expect me to accept the fact that because i have some small luxuries that's the reason i can't possibly hope to buy a house anywhere even remotely normal. It has everything to do with globalization and national economic policies.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Post World War II, US manufacturing sector survived. European manufacturing was decimated .  But now the competitors have recovered and now you've new competitors. And you're competing with all of them at once.      

Doing business with other nations is the key to world peace, now that too many countries have nuclear weapons. It'll be foolish to pick a fight with a country you're doing business with without it affecting your own economy negatively. 

Human life became more expensive, so many factory high risk jobs got shipped to countries where value of life is cheap to both government welfare and companies being sued.    

High tuition costs. No major improvement to the education system. Blue collar workforce isn't being trained into white collar jobs .     

Chinese labor force(relatively debt free) is competing with American labor force (debt ridden). Initially it was blue collar manufacturing jobs, then white collar jobs and now small businesses and infrastructure. They're building roads and bridges in foreign countries. 

The rest of the planet came out of slavery and started to educate their citizens. More competition.     

Agriculture has improved, fewer people are dying because of poverty. And many countries also got their independence from the Brits. More Indians died under British rule because of famine, since the food was shipped to Brits at the cost of Indian life. 

Healthcare is better, which has increased competition. Experienced work force isn't retiring/dying and a healthy baby is born every second.         

Easy loans have increased the property prices globally. You can work 40hours and have a family but your lifestyle needs to change. You probably can't afford the same neighborhoods as a couple 40years ago.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: If you lived a 1950s lifestyle, you could support a family on one salary. 

Then: One car per family.  Now: One car per person.

Then: One phone per family. Now: One cell phone per person.

Then: Over the air radio/TV.  Now: Cable, streaming services, etc.

Then: Small house.  Now: Giant house.

Then: Coupon cutting, smart shopping, cooking and eating at home.  Now: Take out/dining out every day/night.

Then: Taking lunch to work every day.  Now: going out for lunch every day.

Then: Hand me downs for children.  Now: Latest fashion accessory.

Then: No internet.  Now: All the internets.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: It's infuriating me that the honest to God and real reason hasn't been mentioned. **[The increase in world population.](_URL_2_)**

When there's plenty of food production and less people, food is, of course, cheaper. But as demand, diversity, and required quantity increase, it's bound to go up.

But that's obviously only scratching the surface. You want to own a home? That means owning land. And that means being able to get land to own. 

London is a perfect example. [This is the population INCREASE of London over the past few years](_URL_0_). 

[But now look at the price of a typical London home over time](_URL_1_). (Make sure to check the years at the bottom, and sorry for image size). 

Population shoots up? Home prices shoot up.

This goes for everything, not just food and housing. More people want furniture? Well, more furniture needs to be made. But that means more factories/assemblies (and forests/materials), which needs more land. 

That's not even scratching on non-renewables. And I don't mean just oil and gas. There are only so many metals, and recycling only goes so far. Yes, there's a HELL of a lot of iron, but getting to it becomes more and more difficult and, yes, requires more and more land.

Tl;Dr: Rising population requires more land. We don't have more land. This creates a cascading demand for land, which means it's worth more, which then gets washed into the rest of the economy since every business needs land at some point in its chain.

EDIT: Spotted a comment further down mentioning how many people avoid this issue, it's just if you're in a densely populated area. This is somewhat true but it goes worldwide, think through the supply chain. If you live in the Mid-West, an area with a lot of free space, and buy bananas, that came from another country which might not have so much space, given it's all taken up by banana farms. Suddenly, bananas have a premium on them due to land prices due to high demand, low supply. So even though the grocer in the Mid-West has cheap land, what he's buying doesn't.

There's a catch here, and bananas are a weak example, since transport is cheaper now than it used to be. But you will see what I've detailed in my post in action over the coming years.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: I have a friend who has a theory that it stems from (putting it bluntly) women getting equal opportunity at jobs and careers.  

I don't really know if I agree with him or not, and it's certainly not a "politically correct" stance to agree with. But objectively, it makes sense... a massive influx of people into the job market over a couple of decades, more so than job growth could handle at the time. This means workers aren't a limited commodity anymore... they're in excess, so employers can pay less for them because everyone's just happy to have a job.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Capital has suceesfully destroyed the labor movement. Simple as that's. Through propaganda they have convinced the people to vote out of their self interest and have undone the progress made in the 1880's through the 1950's
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: I wonder what the wealth gap was like back then?

There are 1645 billionaires in the world today.
14.6 MILLION millionaires.

I know plenty of people say a million isn't that much anymore. But I would argue it is more than most ever see.

How many huge corporations are there today? and how much money do they have compared to corporations in the past.
and how much tax are they paying compared to the past?
These would directly affect how much tax the person on the street has to pay, either directly, or indirectly through the purchases they make.

A house in 1960 in the UK was an average of 2500
with the yearly wage being around 700-1000 

Today the average wage is 27k
with the average house price being 282k

3 years wage to buy a house in 1960.
Over 10 years today.

Quite a difference!!

 
Other things are being kept artificially low, so it looks like our money goes further.
Milk is only 1 per 2litres
Bread is only 80p a loaf
Eggs are 1.50 for a dozen

Which is near enough what they cost to manufacture.
This also goes for all the sugar and cheap shit they create 'produced food' out of these days.
It seems like our weekly wage isn't that affected by our weekly shop too badly.
But if you wanted to buy quality food. You know it is out of the price range of the average person.


There are far more other reasons, but we live in a consumer world today. Other people manufacturer it.
If it wasn't being made by kids in the third world, or low paid workers in the far east, we simply wouldn't be able to afford it on our wages.

The rich have got richer, and we are living a lie of wealth, with subsidised food, and dirt cheap products, made by even poorer people, but with housing it takes a lifetime to afford, and the inevitable global equality coming in the future.
Which will no longer bring the masses their cheap products.

Our wealthy and educated will be able to compete in the global market, but our poor will face competition they cannot compete with, which will force the global poor to be on a similar level.

If the rich/corporations are taxed to prop up the poor, then a country could protect its vulnerable, otherwise the wealth gap will become bigger and the rich will Ayn Rand themselves away from the impoverished masses.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: I believe it has a lot to do with the devaluation of human labor. You may now only need one person to do multiple tasks that may have taken a team of people to do 30 years ago. Factor in population growth and you can probably picture how the supply side of labor is in excess, which in turn creates a cost decrease in labor. Now, this idea only works if you assume non-skilled labor. I do not believe skilled labor is feeling the "change" you mentioned, and if they are its probably because of a change in what we consider "supporting a family" means.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: In addition to the other factors mentioned, it's not true that in the past one person could support a family.  In the mid-20th century, while the husband may have been the only wage-earner, the wife usually worked full-time in the home, cooking, cleaning, and raising the children for no pay.  These days, families with two working parents often spend most of one person's salary to buy these services.

Going back further in time, many of the older children in the family would also be working full-time jobs rather than going to school.

It may seem like we haven't gained anything with the two-worker household, but we have: it means more choice and self-determination for women, and better education and less exploitation of children.  (And despite appearances, households *have* become wealthier too.)
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: People like to try to find one reason, but in reality it's almost always more complicated than that. Housing prices alone have seen a ton of growth. Here's a graph that has some price changes from 1980-2016:

_URL_3_

If you look at the last tab that shows real growth, The US costs have inflated 14% in real terms, with a lot of the major cities growing 40% or more. Real terms meaning inflation adjusted, as this is ELI5. So, for something that may have cost you 25% of your take home pay in 1980, you're now paying 35% for the same house. 

The other variable to consider her is that these percentages are based off median household income. In laymans terms, as more women joined the workforce, more money went into each household, and even with that happening, housing costs continued to rise. Effectively, we've worked harder to pay more, at least partially.

Consumerism is another major factor. Put simply, you probably buy a lot more shit than someone did 30-50 years ago.

A third major change was the factor of productivity. This tends to be the most politically fueled subject of the bunch. I started typing a big example here, but there's no way to start without going on for longer than I have. In short, technology has allowed a single person to be significantly more productive, which changes profit payouts from employees to shareholders. 

There are probably a lot of other valid reasons too, but these are the biggest three I can think of off hand.

TL:DR; Your house costs a lot more than it used to, you buy too much stuff, and you're significantly underpaid relative to your value 50 years ago.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: When? If you look at it historically, very roughly:

1) before the industrial revolution, you busted your ass working the fields 24/7 to have food on the table, and if you were lucky enough to live in a feudal society, most of it went to your lord

2) during the industrial revolution, you worked 10+ hours in factories under terrible conditions

3) that leaves us with say, the 20th century (and only in certain countries), where 40 hrs/week would allow you to get by, which historically is just a blip on the radar. If, for instance, you lived in the rural USSR, food shortages and general goods shortages were still common, so 40 hrs/week and a comfortable life was not universally true.

Obviously during each and every one of these eras there were certain classes of people that were exempt from this, but that was always a tiny minority of the population. So to sum it up, I don't think your statement is really true except in the view of recent history.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: At one time, successful companies passed their profits on to their employees. Modern business practices favor getting employees to work as cheaply as possible. 

So the CEO makes 25 million dollars a year, plus bonuses, and the employees have all been fired and replaced by temps making close to minimum wage.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: The reason is NAFTA destroyed our blue-collar economy.  It made it possible for corporations to exploit developing countries unregulated work forces, which American plants can not compete with. They opened the floodgates to outsourcing and now that domestic workforce which defined our country post WW2 is almost entirely gone; there are still a few industries like steel manufacturing/fabrication, aeronautics, agriculture, and firearms, but even those jobs are being snuffed out by China's vicous maniplution of it's currency. The TPP and TTIP are the final nails in the coffin of the American middle-class, and that is why we are seeing so much bi-partisen blow-back and the elite attempting to fast track it.

NAFTA and TPP is great for the people who own and run the companies; profit soars as American workers are laid off, and the CEOs, mop up all the money that would have otherwise gone to their employees. The economy does not reap any of the increased profits either, because often times the international coorporations shelter under tax-havens overseas, vis-a-vis the panama papers.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Globalization.

Two generations ago, knowledge was sequesterable.  The people who had it (the West) kept it to themselves.  If you wanted to learn engineering, you had to go to a western university.  If you wanted to be a doctor, the same.  And, it was similar in almost every top profession.  If you wanted to do anything to a top-degree, you had to pay someone in the West to learn how to do it.  So, the people getting educated used to be almost entirely Westerners.  All the best jobs were in the Western World.  Etc...  The West had an absolutely MASSIVE competitive advantage.

Not anymore.  Nowadays, if you want to learn anything - you go to the internet.  Knowledge isn't sequestered anymore.  Anyone can get it.

When you want a bedside table, you can get a $25 one from China.  50 years ago, you pretty much had to get one hand-made for you, at 10x the price.  But, we can only do this now because wages are so much lower in China.

50 years ago, you couldn't just ship your factory over to China to take advantage of the cheap labor.  Now you can - and, not surprisingly, all the factories have left the Western World (for the most part). 

In fact, nowadays, you can do just about anything - just about anywhere.   So, wages in China/India/etc... will be rising (compared to American wages) as more factories move there.

We used to be able to get away with paying ourselves 50x what the same laborer in China was making.  We can't anymore.  Wages in the First World and equalizing with wages in the 3rd world (and everywhere else).  

That's why the West has been getting poorer for decades now.  The advantages we used to have over everyone else are pretty much gone now.  Luckily, we still have a huge economic advantage.  But, over the next few decades, expect everything to get worse for Westerners and better for everyone else.

tl;dr:  The West used to have humongous barriers-to-entry and a lock on knowledge.  Today it's slipping away (and has been for decades now).
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Low/no skill labor in the US does have it much tougher today. Much more of the world is industrialized and automation has progressed rapidly; so a lot of blue collar jobs are now competing with global labor and also with technology. That has put massive downward pressure on manufacturing wages, and has eliminated altogether a great many manufacturing jobs.

Today we also have computers, smart phones, internet access, hundreds of times as much entertainment content, MRIs, a great many new drug therapies, much more complicated vehicles, many more vehicles per person, much larger houses, air travel for the masses, a much more varied food selection, etc...

So we have more to spend money on, and people at the lower end of the economic ladder have less money to spend on everything. The good news is the upper middle class and rich portions of the population have exploded. That is cold comfort when you are not in one of those groups though.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Something to chew on... In 1975 the Fair Labor Standards Act set the exempt from overtime level to $23,660. It's remained there for 40 years thanks to the 1%. All the money that would have gone to our families and communities instead went to the 1%. This was always supported by the Republicans. Shame on Democrats for letting it languish.

President Obama will issue an Executive order in December of this year raising that number to $47,476. Adjusted for the Consumer Price Index, that number should be $106,003. Sorta starts to focus the economic picture we have.

Interestingly, looking at what's considered the poverty income level for a family of four is $23,550. Boy, that's JUST UNDER the federal exemption from overtime of $23,660! I wonder if there's a correlation!
It's just sad that our legislators have allowed corporate interests to quite literally run over the American middle class and flush down the toilet. 

There is no question in my mind that we have become a corporate state owned by the 1% (or now the 0.1%).
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Elizabeth Warren and her daughter wrote a book about it.

The basic premise is that families have taken their second income  and have gotten into bidding wars with each other and driven the price of basic living items higher. Housing being the prime example but also things like daycare and education.

[Two Income Trap](_URL_4_)
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Your question is based on a strawman. It is absolutely not true for almost everywhere in the US.  Some places yes...most places, no.  

I know plenty of 40 hour a week single income families that have boats, take vacations...you name it.

They don't live in SF or Manhattan apartments.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: I could write a book on all the reasons it's hard to support a family today than it was in the 80's and earlier. But I'll summarize with this:

Companies don't give a shit about you. At the end of the day they're about making money and they can only get so far by making good products and services people want. At some point they need to maximize margins and to do that they condense, cut costs, and slow wages. Labor is generally the largest source of operating costs so it's the most attractive opportunity to exploit. 

The government grossly underestimates cost of living because they're willfully ignorant to how expensive life is. Just look at food stamps. To qualify for assistance like food stamps you have to truly be living in a hell whole of depravity that makes you question why you're even alive. The reason is because the cost of living index heavily influences interests rates and seeing it for how depressing it really would benefit people and not businesses and banks, which as you know, own congress. 

The housing market is in shambles. The quality of infrastructure in America is godawful. Homes are not up to code, large building are falling apart, and everything from our sewers to roads are in a state of disrepair that fails to meet regulations in more ways than you'd think possible, but this only benefits the people and would cost corporate America billions. 

It's not about you and me, it's about padding the pockets of the top and making life more manageable for the average person (the vast majority of America) would be too expensive. So we stay poor and starved, too weak to do anything about it.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: 2 main factors at play

1) Wages have stagnated while the price of necessities have gone up.

2) People buy more stuff they don't need.  Average house size has gone up.  Unnecessary electronics cost more.  No one truly needs a data plan. We spend less time on food preparation and so we pay more for "convenience"
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: I think that it should be required on this thread to indicate your age. I am 56. I was born in 1960. My father worked and my mother stayed at home. We had one car, which we kept until it died. We had one TV, which was black and white until we eventually bought a color TV. There was no cable bill. We had two phones. One upstairs. One downstairs in the basement (where Monsters dwelt). Both were leased rotary phones wired to the wall. We paid a monthly bill for our phones. Long distance phone calls were incredibly expensive so when we called long distance, which was rarely, we kept it quick. We drove for our vacations. We did not fly. Hardly anyone flew. We ate out once a week at an affordable sit down restaurant. I did not have a computer, a phone, or a game console as a kid. No one I knew had expensive stereo equipment. We had single unit stereos that were cheap. Medical care was less expensive. But people died more from medical issues. Gas was cheap. Our mortgage was my family's largest expense by far. It was why all the other things stated above were true. The bottom line was that people were frugal. Coffee was out of a pot. Starbucks did not exist. Track your income. Control your spending, as your grandparents did. People largely nickle and dime themselves into living paycheck to paycheck. Live the life your parents lived at your age, not the life your parents live now. Oh, and max your retirement savings.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: The economy simply adapted for families with 2 incomes.

Nowadays, with women working we have an extra income in the house, but we also have extra expenses like a babysitter or a kindergarten for the kids, money spent on frozen food because the woman are no longer at home all the time to cook (which is cheaper than buying frozen food), women that work mostly likely will have an extra car to go to work (additional expenses), etc.

This type of economic adaptation is also seen when people that live alone get a raise. For example, let's suppose that your salary is 5k USD/month, but next month your boss decides to make your new salary 6k USD/month.

At the end of the first month after the raise you will probably be happy to see how most of those extra 1k USD will still be in your bank account, but a few months later - after you adapted to your new income and lifestyle - I'm sure that the amount of money left on your account in the end of the month will be basically the same that used to be before the raise.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: You are assuming that what was true 50 years ago was also true 100 years ago. Most people weren't supporting a family on a single paycheck from 40 hours of weekly work a 100 years ago.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: The value of real estate is just like the value of everything else. It's worth as much as people are willing to pay for it. One of the biggest problems where I live in Southern California and other places where real estate prices are high is that super rich people from places like China are coming in and buying up everything as rental properties and paying cash. This lowers the inventory of available real estate and thus supply and demand drives up the value. It creates this extremely unfair playing field where regular folks who have saved get outbid and out priced.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: So much rose-tinted googles and tear-jerking on here.

Income levels in the US are higher today than they were through most of the 20th century. It's true that in the past 20 years income levels have stagnated, but they are still higher than in 1990.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: This is an overly exaggerated way to describe today's economy. Most families in the US are not in a position where both spouses have to work full-time just to support themselves, far from it.

It's true that inflation-adjusted median income levels have stagnated since the 1980s (though they did not fall) and for that you can blame - if you chose to do so - globalization. If you don't want to blame anyone, you go out and get a useful skill-intensive degree and reap the benefits of today's knowledge-based economy. Like the wealthier Americans have done to much success.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: A variety of things changed but a major factor is the expectations of what you should expect from life. People needed less money in the past because they had lower expectations of standard of living compared to now. 

Things a family in 1970 didn't spend money on: computers, video game systems, multiple cars, personal tvs, multiple phones, cable tv, and probably more that I can't think of offhand.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Wealth accumulates upward and the social safety net was dismantled beginning in the 80s. Without a significant check to their power, the rich continue to get richer while leaving the rest of the country behind. The Reagan revolution has bankrupted America. That's why.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Trickle down economics didn't trickle down.  Globalasation/Offshoring of manufacturing jobs.  Population increasing more than the number of high paying jobs.  Accumulation and stagnation of wealth.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Work went from meaningful and worthwhile to "pay me enough to scrape by and I'll be your slave."
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: A lot of issue to cover here, but a few easy ones to name  led to the decline...

The abandonment of the gold standard is one. When our currency was based on a rare metal it was much harder for the dollar to be manipulated. 

Returning the Panama Canal was another. The canal helped feed the coffers that helped Goverment run. It wasn't a huge hit, but it did take away our abality to control a powerful trade route. 

Poor trade agreements hurt a lot.  We as a country couldn't really compete with countries that subsidized the cost of thier manufactured goods. 

The implementation of a minimum federal wage under valued labor is some parts of the country, over valued labor in others. Before a federal minimum wage, local markets controlled the price of labor. Pay too little and no one would work for you, pay too much and not be able to afford the price of labor.  The cost of labor was tied the cost of living in a more dynamic sense. Now, wages in some parts of the country are too low, and in other too high. Instead of the town/city/state basing pay off of a local scale, it is now tied to federal requirement that ignores a local market. 

The growth of Goverment. This is a big issue. A major issue. This simple example of how poorly the Goverment spends money is a little old, but should give you a fair idea. No Child Left Behind. For every dollar collected in taxes, on average, 14 cents made it back to the schools. A lot of waste in the Goverment. Too much.

The rise of the welfare state. Very simple to explain. We support people who can not support them selves. The Goverment raises taxes to pay for it, people make less take home money, more go on welfare, more taxes are collected to pay for the increase of people on welfare, more people make less take home money, go on welfare.... Wash rise repeat.... Compounded by how bad our Goverment spends money. 

Federal grants and loans for higher education. So stupid that no one really sees this. Every single year the Goverment increase the amount of money it gives in grants and loans, the cost of higher education is increased to take full advangte of the increased amount of money the Goverment is willing to grant or loan. Have watched this happen for 18 years. No one says anything at all. 

The rise of the 4th branch of Goverment. The regulator branch. Businesses spend billions to comply with regulations every year. That is money that could be used to hire more people. 

Insurance for every thing. Once insurance became mandatory, it no longer become affordable. This is very apparent for the current health care insurance we are now required to carry. 

Tax law. Needs reform.  When a majority of people in the country don't pay any taxes at all, we have a problem.


I think the biggest single factor though is probably the stupidity of the American people over all. We have become a society that doesn't respect debt and intrest. Very few seem to know how to live with in their means. Wealth is built over time, but requires spending wisely and only when really needed. 

The average debt most Americans carry has soared in the last 15 years. 



Edit: spelling
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: I'm going to assume you live in the U.S. and break down the major points into ELI5 versions.

1. Productivity of an employee has gone up roughly 60% in the U.S. since 1980, but compensation for that employee has gone up less than 10% in the same time period.  Additionally there are far less barriers to trade between countries than there used to be. Think of it this ELI5 way, the economy and individual employees are producing many more things you can buy, but not providing any additional compensation so that you can buy them.

2. The debt burden on an individual is much higher than it used to be.  Essentially, the cost of cars, houses, and education are much higher now than they used to be.  [This website has a really good breakdown.](_URL_5_) Several factors have made them more expensive over that long period of time; union wages, more modern regulations for safety that prevent shortcuts, etc.  But the biggest factor is probably the difference between Need and Luxury.  A lack of education, a house, or a car places you in a fundamentally different strata of U.S. society.  You will be treated negatively for not having them.  That they represent "Gateways" to social success (like getting married or having good income) makes people need them more than iphones and fine dining.  ELI5: You want those things more so you will pay more for those things and the sellers know it.  Medicine had the same problem for a long time (buy me or die) but isn't growing as fast now that the Affordable Care Act has passed.

3. Social mobility, or the ability of a person to change what level of income they live on, has nose-dived in the U.S.  The reasons are difficult to untangle: its a combination of the stratified education system, the high cost of the high end, and a reliance on a social network within the different strata to navigate them.  ELI5: If you are lower middle class, you don't know the business version of secret handshakes among the upperclass that let them recognize each other, and they don't know yours.  The result is our social classes act almost like rival tribes that avoid each other and don't like to let members of the other tribes in, especially when it comes to employment.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Lets not forget that 40hrs a week is a privilege Americans had to strike/protest for. In the early 1900's workers were literally building the country working 16hr shifts each day. Workers were often cheated of their money, time and if nonwhite or nonblack, land. And with the World War's logistics devastating the country families were encouraged to grow their own food. I think after the 50th's the country seen the worst and got their shit together. Someone correct me if I'm wrong.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Wages didn't keep up with inflation and the current costs when they went up. People make less now than they did on minimum wage back then. You have to make at least $15 an hour to make a comfortable living.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Two points some people are ignoring.
Executive salaries increased by about the same as middleclass lost (by stagnation)
Most jobs lost through automation are middle-management not enrylevel or unskilled.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Are you just talking USA? Because what you describe is entirely possible in some European countries.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Men we're encouraged to have big families and women were all homemakers because they didn't really have workplace rights. Therefore, all jobs available had to support a family. The only people who went to college were doctors and big businessmen. Outsourcing labor was unheard of because corporations were very nationalistic (nationalism was viewed favorably during this time period, as opposed to now where it's viewed negatively and discriminatory) and also because we bombed every first world country to the ground during the World Wars and countries like China and India were just big farmland. The number of jobs that required no education were also abundant because the US gave a bunch of money to Europe (EDIT: Marshall Plan) to rebuild after the war but much of their money was used to buy US made good in order to establish their own infrastructures, so we could demand whatever price we wanted and no country had the resources or infrastructure to supply Europe's rebuilding needs. Lesser factors of living affordability were that women did not have vehicles. Companies also didn't have exposure to third-world populations who would work for lesser payment and benefits so corporations provided benefits for free.



Fast forward to present. The government gives out no-risk-analysis loans to go to college. Because loans are so freely given, colleges raised their prices exponentially because the government will loan citizens infinite money to attend school. So you have to get a $40k degree to make $12/hr working tech support. When you used to be able to make equivalent $25/hr as a high school dropout working for a plaant that manufactures electronics, furnitures, and automobiles. China and India are now rising industrial powers and not just farmland. Companies don't give workers benefits because their workforce China and India doesn't need the extra incentives to work so they'll just give your job to some Indian if you're unhappy with the work conditions. Companies feel no need to provide their fellow countrymen with jobs because nationalism has the negative connotation of being related to dictatorships. The new mindset is of diversity and tolerance, so the less numbers of legal American citizens working at a company, the better the company looks in the eyes of the new average consumer. 


Present-day strong economy Nordic countries have protectionist trade policies, tough immigration laws, and less diversity. Present-day weak economy European countries are diverse with near non-existant immigration laws and very free trade.


When trying to figure why America is less well off now, compared to the World War days, think of all the financially-invisible benefits of diversity combined with greater work opportunities that non-whites and women have now compared to the past. We could convert to Nordic policies and be like the America of old and that would be good for white natural born citizens but at the cost of quality of life for women, minorities, and the rest of the world. Without multinational, heartless corporations there would be many countries still farmland and many immigrants forced to remain in their shithole countries and never get to enjoy American quality of life.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Mrs. Economy next door makes a pie every day. She offers some pie to anybody who can help with yard work. You and other kids in the neighborhood used to go do some yardwork and Mrs. Economy would give you all enough pie for you and your whole family.

One day, you and your friends had to go beat up a bully a couple blocks down, and your sister did the yardwork that day. Mrs. Economy gave your sister the pie (though not as much as she normally gave you.)

When you went back to work the next day, your sister did too because she preferred working for pie instead of depending on you for it. So now all the boys and girls in the neighborhood are doing yardwork. Mrs. Economy decided to give all the girls about 40% of the pie to rake leaves and pull weeds, and she gave the boys 60% of the pie to mow the lawn, dig post-holes, and put blacktop on the driveway. Overall, everyone's taking home a smaller amount of pie.

Eventually some kids borrow the riding mower from their dad and get the lawn mowed in half the time, but it turns out they actually get less pie because they didn't put in a full day's work. They got the same amount of work done in less time, but mower kids dad tells Mrs Economy that it's *his* mower so he should get the extra pie (not a very nice dad.) Mrs. Economy says she can only make so many pies in one day so thank you very much but the mower kid only gets an extra bite or two, and dad puts the extra pie in the freezer, under lock and key.

You and all the neighborhood kids are growing up and getting bigger, and so you need more pie to satisfy the demands of your bodies. Meanwhile, Mrs. Economy got an electric mixer and is actually pumping out more pies than ever. But because so many kids are getting in on the yardwork, and because all the neighborhood dads are loaning out riding mowers and leafblowers, you're seeing very little of the increased availability of the pie, even though you get more work done in less time, and just when your body needs more nourishment.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Lets go for specific data.

note: My examples are Canadian statistics

Basically, the rate of income has increased similar to the rate of inflation.
 - **Income alone is not the problem.**

We have more debt at a younger age (student loans).  This is largely a policy problem (here in Canada) as we used to give more to universities.

We buy more stuff we don't need.

We buy on credit beyond our means of paying back.


Since 1996, the [cost of living](_URL_6_) has increased 37.2%, or an average of 1.96% per year.

For a [longer range look from 1950 to 2016](_URL_7_) you see a steady increas of the "consumer price index".  The thing to remember about this index is that it tries to "measures changes in the prices paid by consumers for a basket of goods and services."

Computers and ipads are not on this list.

Luxury items are not on this list.


So we probably have two distinct things going on here.

In the 1950s people often walked to work because they could not afford a car.

They worked close to home.

They ate local produce.

The didn't often  spend money on long distance calls or expensive phone services.

They may not have had a tv, and if they did it was small, and hey had only one.

Only the wealthy took expensive vacations.  Vacation time for many was a time to work on projects around the house like fixing leaks or windows that rattled.

Here in Canada older people talk about frost on the inside of the house (not just the windows) and water frozen in the sink on winter mornings.

My mom first had indoor plumbing when she moved to the city (halifax) in 1946.  When she moved to Gimli Manitoba in 1956 because my dad was posted to a rural airbase, only a few homes had indoor plumbing.

In 1960, Mom bought [this home for $1500](_URL_8_)

She says **We lived differently in the 1950s**

Mom says she used a washboard for 6 years while they saved up to buy a washing machine.  (while teaching schools, while taking night courses to get her Masters of Education)
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Well, I would like to add my two cents to this (I am not an economist, but I will try my best to explain what I believe is happening). First, inflation and second, wage stagnation. 

The easiest way to explain what is inflation is that your buying power, of a consumer, weakens because products get more expensive (and there is a number or reasons as to why it happens- like the parts of the product gets more expensive to manufacture or transportation cost more. So the producer of the goods would have to start raising the price of the goods you want to buy at the store).

Think of it this way. Every week you buy a few groceries at your local supermarket. There, you buy milk, bread, cheese, chicken, lunch meat, some fruits, and vegetables. At the registered, the cashier tells you that your total is $9.99. The next time you buy the exact same groceries (milk, bread, cheese, chicken, lunch meat, some fruits, and vegetables) the cashier will tell you that the total price of those items is now- $10.99. As a consumer, you just lost some buying power because you have to pay a little bit more to purchase the exact same goods. Now, imagine the same thing happen over time- and sometimes this can happen pretty fast. Which would hurt the economy of where it is happening, if inflation is out of control (think of places like the Weimar Republic) . The rate in which inflation happens is called the inflation rate. 

Wage stagnation is basically when your paycheck isn't keeping up with the inflation rate of your society/time period. So even if you are getting a small raise it won't be enough, unless your new raise covers the current inflation rate. If you have wage stagnation, then over time, you can't really keep up with a same standard of living, that you started out with. So, usually, we now have a household where two must work to keep up with the standard of living we considered to be normal (owning a car, owning a home, paying bills/utilities etc...).
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: There's a lot of propaganda in this thread, people spouting off on things they can't actually back with facts, just empty emotional proclamations.

Here's a fact you won't see anyone else mention: at $45,000 the US has the world's second highest median disposable household income level (behind only Switzerland). For example, it's 20% higher than Norway, 32% higher than Germany, and 50% higher than Sweden.

Another: US household debt to income ratios are dramatically better than most Western European nations, including Sweden, Denmark, Finland, and the Netherlands.

More: the US unemployment rate is half that of the EU or Eurozone. US youth unemployment is also drastically better than most of Europe.

More: US median household net wealth is higher than either Germany or Sweden.

Another fun fact on this topic: the size of the median US house has nearly doubled since 1950, while the household size has been cut in half. However, keep in mind that the median American house is far larger than the median Western European house, and it costs less.

So what's the problem, given America has so much disposable income? Simple really: Americans have dramatically increased their consumer spending in the last 40 years, instead of dedicating that to savings. They have doubled the size of their homes, they've taken on multiple car payments, expensive cell  &  cable plans, eating out all the time, etc etc.

However, that's not the entire story. If you believed the headline, you'd think America were actually struggling: it's not, news flash. More people have moved up out of the middle class in the last 40 or 20 year spans than have moved down out of it. The typical American is getting richer and moving up, not down:

_URL_10_

_URL_9_
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Simply put, machines are putting good people out of work. My grandfather was a machinist in Milwaukee. No college, just on the job training. Married at age 23, raised 5 kids. Lived in a modest house for the rest of his life.

His job doesn't exist anymore. Not in the US, and if it does, it's being done by a machine. That's the point of machines; what they can do no one will hire a person to do. And not to sound like a Marxist, but the profits from that saved labor don't go to everyday people, they go to the people who own the machines.

This will only accelerate in the future. There are 3.5 million truck drivers in the US who make pretty good wages. All of their jobs are in jeopardy in the next 10-20 years. Those jobs will *never* be coming back.

Yes, people spend more on stuff they don't need. It's the design of the beast. Our economy depends on people buying things they don't need. If people only bought what they needed our economy would collapse.

We need to ask some serious questions in the future about what we want society to look like, given the reality that more and more people will be automated out of a job. We need to shake the Protestant idea that people who don't work are just lazy. Maybe they are, or maybe they've just been left behind. "Your skills will no longer be necessary."
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: The system's broken. It tends towards more and more wealth being held by fewer and fewer people because if you have money it's easier to make more money. So everything seems to get worse for everyone else. Only violent (usually economic, sometimes military, or possibly social) 'corrections' offset this trend, for a while, before it happens again under any capitalist system. Your life is worse because people in power can make money from it being worse and we don't seem to have a system to correct this in the normal course of events.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: There are people who aren't rich yet still can support a family by working 40 hours a week. One of the big things that's changed is our standard of living and the culture surrounding it. Back in the times you're thinking of, a "good" standard of living meant something very different than what we mean when we refer to a "good" standard of living today. It seems that our idea of what a "good" standard of living entails has grown much faster than have wages.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: A lot of people will answer stuff like wage stagnation or cost of living increases, but that isn't a cause, it is just data that shows the problem. A potential *cause* would be something like American business interests (what you might call "capital") defeating the workers' rights / labor movement. (I happen to agree with that one, but there are other possible causes.)
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Maybe we have more access to things we "want" as opposed to "need".

We "want" the

Mobile phones
Digital/Satellite TV
Internet Access
Fancier Car
Latest Computer/Gadgets
Branded clothes...

Then our kids want the same

If I only spent money (here in the UK) on what my parents did in the 1970s then we could probably survive comfortably on my salary alone.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: I also think that people have way higher expectation about what "supporting a family" means.  People used to have one car, smaller houses, simpler diets, fewer outfits, modest, if any, vacations; etc.  Our expectations of what we need has grown so much that we need two incomes to support our lifestyle.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: A large increase in the labor supply tends to drive down wages. 

Women entered the workforce in large numbers starting around the time that inflation-adjusted wages began to stagnate.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: CEO and management wages went up, exceeding cost of living increases; while employee wages stayed nearly stagnant, continually failing to keep up with cost of living increases.
question: A long time ago, a person was able to work 40 hours a week and support a family. Today two people need to work 40 hours a week to barely support themselves living together. What changed?[removed] answer: Selfish legislation passed by a slight majority of babyboomers has allowed them to reap the most possible benefits at the coat of their children's futures.
question: If the Hubble Space Telescope can observe things billions of light years away, why can't we use the HST to observe exoplanets and terrestrial bodies that are near to us, like Pluto or the gas giants' moons? answer: It isn't built for that. It's been really well designed to look at things that are far away, at the expense of being really shitty at looking at things that are close up. Specialization rather than generalization.
question: If the Hubble Space Telescope can observe things billions of light years away, why can't we use the HST to observe exoplanets and terrestrial bodies that are near to us, like Pluto or the gas giants' moons? answer: Telescopes primary job is to collect LIGHT. Stars PRODUCE visible light, alot of it. Planets do not. Therefore, the Hubble Space telescope can really only see stars (which again, actually produce light as opposed to planets which only reflect light) and galaxies which are even brighter than stars. We use different telescopes to find exoplanets, including infrared, gamma, x-ray, microwave, etc.
question: If the Hubble Space Telescope can observe things billions of light years away, why can't we use the HST to observe exoplanets and terrestrial bodies that are near to us, like Pluto or the gas giants' moons? answer: This is a really common question, please search first. 

Galaxies are big. Really, really, really big. They're also really really really bright. They literally shine like a trillion suns. 

Plutoids are really really really small, and really really really dim. They are so far from the sun that the sun doesn't give them much more light than other nearby stars. If you were on Pluto, you wouldn't be able to tell which star is the Sun, and the difference between day and night is imperceptable: it's always dark. 

If I gave you a pair of binoculars and asked you to find the moon, I bet you wouldn't have a problem. If I gave you a pair of binoculars and told you to find the flea named James who lives on the right ear of the dog that lives two houses down, you're going to have some issues. 

Exoplanets are a bit different. That analogy would be more like if I said, "with your bare eyes, find the mercury at noon on a summer day". The sun is just too bright, it's light utterly drowns out everything around it.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: Europe tends to have well developed mass transit systems.  Many people don't drive, and prefer to be in a city center near to where they work, play, and shop.

The US has a strong car culture, while allows all these places to be further apart.  In addition, the US is newer, less settled, and more sparsely populated.  These means there can be more significant differences in land prices, or greater opportunities to own more land.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: You are now seeing a return of middle and upper clases to inner city in most major U.S. cities, but the main cause for those classes fleeing to the suburbs was called "white flight" where they wanted to get away from minorities and the perceived threats of crime and dropping property values. Invention of the 30 year mortgage allowed people to afford homes, and as cars became commonplace, the interstate system was developed, real estate developers built new homes in rapidly expanding suburban areas. White middle and upper middle class could afford to buy these new homes, while the poor and minorities remained in the older rental properties and smaller homes in the cities.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: History and development patterns, and most importantly, the highway and white flight. The cities of Europe developed before cars or even trains, and they built high end buildings in the city center, to be close to work and the centers of power.  In the 1800s, factories were then built on the outskirts of town. 

In the US, it was still very unsettled when industrialization began, so factories were often built near the downtown area. When rails and trams were developed, the rich wanted places in the suburbs away from the pollution and crowding. Then, after WW2, the US started building highways. Instead of preserving all the older city cores, the highways were often built right through them, demolishing the old housing stock and then creating a loud, polluting highway. The US used to allow land use rules where a private development could say "no minorities." Once that was declared illegal, a lot of white people decided to move out of the older city center to new suburbs serviced by the highway. And the US government encouraged this with subsidized development loans, and they excluded the inner cities from loan eligibility. 

The US also actively dismantled much of its train infrastructure, while Europe invested in theirs. 

TL:DR: Government policies that actively encouraged suburban sprawl and hurt the cities in the US, vs cultivation of the cities in Europe.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: In the US, post civil war, black people left the rural south for urban centers, mostly in the north, in various surges over the following decades. This influx of uneducated blacks to cities created poor black ghettos. Poverty breeds crime, so these areas were dangerous and urban black people became synonymous with crime and danger to white people.

When the highway and interstate system began being developed and access to automobiles became ubiquitous in the mid and late 1940s, wealthier white people began leaving urban areas in favor of new suburbs, a phenomenon called White Flight. You might want to google "block busting" too. Anyway, the result was white people left huge sections of urban centers and took their money with them. This left the cities to decay.

Now this process is reversing, racial tensions and crime are way down, so the incentive to stay away is basically gone and traffic is up, so incentive to return to the cities is on the rise. Wealthy people deciding to buy property in the city is driving up property values in urban centers. This eventually pushes out low income residents that can't afford rent increases as high income people compete for the same spaces and rental units are improved to attract higher paying renters. Some people deride the process as "gentrification", other people praise it as "urban renewal". Whatever you call it, it is just money returning to the city and this process is in various stages in different cities.

EDIT: I should point out that during white flight, many properties fell into the hands of large scale landlords and new residents were renters in most cases. This is what is facilitating rapid gentrification, those low income residents don't own the properties and are easily forced out by raising rent. The few resident home owners in these neighborhoods are seeing their home values go up 500% in the past 20 years and will often jump at the chance to sell to make a huge windfall profit. A very, very few home owners that want to stay are finding they cannot afford new, higher property taxes, but it is extremely rare that someone that has paid off their house can't afford the small amount for taxes.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: The rich live in the suburbs in the UK too. In fact most of the poor come from the inner city in London... Such as Hackney, Haringey, Peckham, Brixton etc... Due to a lot of social housing estates. Times are changing where house prices have jumped up so much however.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: Im gonna be honest with you, I don't think you've ever been to a major American city. 
Try renting/buying a place in lower Manhattan, and once you get there, try buying/renting on a higher floor. Poor people live farther from the city center  IE - Harlem - Brookly- NJ

Same with Chicago

The only place you might see this is when it comes to land, if a wealthy person wants to have more land they have to move to the suburbs.

Also, in the UK, REALLY RICH people live on the countryside on their huge estates.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: First off, it is not so in Greece. Here there's a mixture of both, varying from neighborhood to neighborhood. There's rich neighborhoods and poor neighborhoods in Athens, and rich and poor suburbs all around Attica, the bigger area where Athens is sited.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: In Vienna the rich are in the innermost part of the city all around are basically all kinds of people but in the outer skirts you have mostly middle class/rich again.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: I took a course in cultural geography back in 2013 and this sounded familiar. I honestly don't remember writing this, but this is from my notes:

The concentric-zone model describes different social groups by their relative location in a city. It proposes that social groups form in rings (zones) surrounding an inner core, which is the central-business district. 

The zone that surrounds the central-business district is the transition zone. The transition zone was traditionally defined as an area where the lowest-income segment of the citys population lived. Often tenements were built in this area specifically for people who worked in the central-business district. Ethnic ghettos were often common.  Today, these same areas are sometimes in ruins or abandoned. The next zone is the blue-collar zone, where workers in the factories of the first two zones resided. This zone is more permanent in nature. It was formed by workers seeking better housing. Ethnic neighborhoods were common. The next zone is middle-income and features even nicer residences. People in this area were able to move further away from the CBD due to advances in public transportation. The outermost zone is the highest income and features more spacious residences. The people who live there are still able to access the CBD through public transportation, but they have moved outward to find a higher quality of life and to be among a homogenous group of people. This area was considered suburbs.

The concentric-zone model was used to describe a new state of cities in the 1920s. According to the text, people of various incomes were more randomly interspersed prior to changes in the late 1800s, such as streetcars, real estate speculation in the suburbs, and inner-city industrial development.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: Europe's countries are older than USA, so the most central parts of European cities are the oldest and most attractive, with highest value and attraction.
 
For example, the city centre of my town was built by Romans, in 4th century, and over the course if history, Venice, Ottomans and French left their imprint on the architecture. 

Suburbs are 'newer' areas, usually built haphazardly, to accommodate expansion of the city. For example, they are mass-built to accommodate industrial revolution and the influx of workers and their families. 

However, many rich people have so-called country/summer/weekend houses which are bigger than those in the city (as you mostly can't build or do expansion on flats and houses in the old and historical parts of the town).
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: Interesting to know is, that this changes once in a while in Europe. There are times where rich lives in suburbs and poor in cities, then it changes to the other way round. What we have now is,  that the rich have a flat in the inner city and a house in the suburbs which leads into increasing prices, too.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: I'm not sure it's always true. While it might apply for Paris for instance, I can assure you the wealthier neighbors of Brussels are in the suburbs, but certainly not in the inner city.


It's really a matter of history. Like many people pointed out such as /u/AgoraiosBum, European cities are usually way older than U.S., before the industrialization era. This difference changes how the city was built and evolved with time. 

Still, sometimes national and local policies will directly influence how a city population spread out. In France for instance, after WWII, they built the "social cities" for the immigrants in the suburbs, so poor people were, and are still, living there. In Brussels, the city is smaller, rent more affordable and the public transports are decent, so the richer classes "flew" in the suburbs where they could have bigger houses while still staying close to urban commodities.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: This is one of the worst threads I've read in a while. City centers are far too expensive for the poor. The exception is section 8, public housing, or homelessness. Without rent assistance I can hardly imagine there are any poor people in any major city center. FYI I've lived in SF, LA, Paris, San Diego. Suburbs are a wash, half wealthy, half poor. Mostly due to gentrification of areas like west/north Oakland.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: The generalization isn't accurate. Many European cities suffered middle class flight and are filled with poorer immigrants, surrounded by wealthier suburbs. While many US cities have expensive cores surrounded by poorer hoods.

It depends a lot on the history of each city.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: If you look at London for example, you still have sections of the inner city where poor people live. But because property prices are so high and property developers are under-regulated and regulations on affordable housing often not enforced, poor people are being priced out.

As other commenters have explained how you have wealthier people fleeing to suburbs I'll skip that. But what we're seeing in London for example, is the city is getting so big and expensive to live in, the city centre is becoming gentrified. Poor people are forced out by prices and government policy.

Some people are so rich, they can afford a nice spacious house and garden in the suburbs or posh commuter towns further out from London, and because the city is such a major hub, transport links make it easy to live like 25 miles from central London and still drive and/or get the train to work in city centre. And even afford the now sky-high property prices in central London, some people have a house in the city and in the countryside.

In London, while the city is huge and prices are high because property-prices and rents for shops are high, parts of the city centre are still spacious and have parks, wide streets and lovely Georgian houses. For those who have very high-paying jobs in the city (and a wealthy family to start with!), the city centre could be seen as a desirable place to live since those parts don't have pesky poor people and (non-white-collar) crime to worry about. And when they're bored with the city they can always drive out to their home in the countryside!
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: The simplest answer is age. European cities developed a long time ago, and there were rich and poor alike crowded into a very small area. Thanks to a rapidly growing population, the enclosure movement, and the industrial revolution, cities became significantly more important and grew almost exponentially. The rich people didn't want all the poor people living where they lived and worked (London was a great example of this), and so they literally destroyed the slums. Thus, a ring formed around the city full of the displaced people who could still get to their jobs due to the newly developing train systems.

The US, on the other hand, had no such crowding issues while they were building most of their cities. American cities are significantly earlier in their lifespan, and the economy during their development was still largely agrarian. Though there was a lot of industry, it wasn't necessarily as concentrated as industrial centres in Europe were. More and more minorities wound up in cities over time, particularly after the civil war, and thanks to discrimination they were shunted into particular areas of cities and denied opportunities to partake of the booming economy throughout the later nineteenth and earlier twentieth century. This, then, established the poor inner city areas in the same time that Europe was excising theirs.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: In London the inner city is a mix of wealth and extreme poverty. For example, Tower Hamlets is a stone's throw from one of the world's leading financial centres, but is home to some of the most deprived people in the UK.

This is kind of changing, as London's property boom continues, poor people are increasingly being priced out of the city.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: Have you ever been to Europe? I live in the UK and the poor always live in the inner city areas. The city centre and suburbs are were the more well off people live (the same as in pretty much every city in world).
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: I'm not sure if that's really true, I live in the UK and the city I'm close to goes rich,poor,middle,rich from the inside out in general
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: Before the proliferation of the automobile, rich Americans did live in cities.  Famously, the University of Southern California elected to keep a plot of land it had in south central LA (near downtown) where the rich folk lived, and sold a plot of land up the coast in Malibu, which was difficult to get to and sparsely populated.  Once White Flight hit America, rich people flocked to Malibu and south central LA became a bastion for gang violence and poverty.  Today, USC remains in dangerous south central LA, while the plot of land sold in Malibu turned into arguably the most beautiful campus in the country: Pepperdine.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: In the UK at least the inner city is still dominated by those less fortunate. During the industrial revolution the inner-city city was more of a slum for the factory workers. These poor quality houses have only started to be improved within the last 30(?)years or so. Gentrification has helped with inviting the wealthy upper classes into the inner-city and out of the suburbs by turning old tenement buildings into luxury apartments this does unfortunately drive the original poorer community out due to not being able to afford the new much higher rent.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: That's not true, In EU there's also a trend of middle/high living in suburbs. And poor living in inner city. There reason for this is because in many cities, welfare housing/flats the city owns are located in inner city, the middle/high class  then moves away from them due to high criminality/vandalism/anti-social experience.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: American metropolitan areas don't consist only of the "inner city" and "suburbs".  Cities consist of many neighborhoods.  They vary widely in wealth.  

Look at NYC.  There is vast poverty in a borough like Harlem, but a borough like Manhattan is one of the wealthiest places on Earth.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: What? Lol I currently live just outside of Denver and many places in downtown the poor couldn't afford. Actually with the rising cost of real estate, they'd probably have a tough time living outside Denver as well.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: New cities built in "the car century" with urban transportation  &  town planning based around personal vehicles, vs old cities that predate that technology.
_URL_0_
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: It's the same in Australia. Inner city is rich outer suburbs are poorer. There are exceptions sometimes.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: This also depends on which city you live in. Most cities worth living in have very developed downtowns where you want to live in the downtown parts. And the suburbs are for those older folk who have kids of a certain age and need minivans and crap.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: Most cities in the US were relatively new when cars were invented.  Le Corbusier's "tower in a park" influenced urban planning for our growing cities and the car replaced the human as the most important user of roads.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: I don't know what you are basing this on, but I live in a European city (Brussels) and the inner city is full of poor people and all the wealthier people live in the suburbs.
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: London has the rich living in both inner and the suburbs, the poor actually live between the 2
question: In European countries, the wealthy and most of the middle class live in the inner city, while the poor are in the suburbs. In America, the poor live in the inner city, while the rich are in suburbs. Why is this?[removed] answer: Mostly because black people moved there. Segregation does funny things to demographics little guy.
question: PewDiePie answer: I find him obnoxious, but he has a friendly nature, a loud personality, and isn't hideous (hence the fangirls). I think his fanbase is mostly teenagers stuck in the "lolrandom" phase.
question: PewDiePie answer: _URL_0_

All you need to know.

Tl;DW? Had a lot of regional success in Sweden in the beginning then snowballed from there.
question: How are prescription drug makes able to sell drugs at such absurd markups, and is there anything consumers can do to change it?[removed] answer: Generally speaking, it costs a lot to bring a drug to market. R & D costs are high, and then the FDA puts it through a lengthy and costly evaluation process. So while it may be true that it is $1 worth of medicine, that ignores millions of dollars that went into the development that need to be recouped to turn a profit on the drug. The company gets a patent on the drug for a time that helps with that, but when it becomes generic the price will drop a good bit. 

Government intervention of various types could bring prices down, but too much intervention could end up disincentivizing R & D.
question: How are prescription drug makes able to sell drugs at such absurd markups, and is there anything consumers can do to change it?[removed] answer: I haven't kept up on the story about the EpiPen but usually the high price of drugs has to do with research and development costs.  The estimated cost to bring a drug to market now exceeds $2.5 Billion [Source](_URL_0_).  If you spend that kind of money up front you need to be able to recoup those costs. If the medicine costs $1 per dose to produce, and you sell it at $5 a pop, you need to sell 625 Million doses just to break even.  Since that's not going to happen unless you are selling something a large portion of the public will use (like pain killers and ED treatment), you need to jack up the price.

Lowering costs in this environment is tricky.  On one hand you can try to create regulation that creates some kind of price ceiling.  How do you determine what that is though? If someone invents a life saving drug for a very rare disease, they might not be able to bring it to market.  
Another approach would be to increase pricing competition.  To do this, you would need to reduce the length of patent protections on new drugs.  Drug makers don't like this because it gives them less time to recoup costs and turn a profit.  It may actually incentivize them to increase the price after the initial release.  If you get rid of patent protections all together, it becomes nearly impossible to do profitable medical R & D because everyone will just copy your work.
The best thing to do would be to reduce the cost of bringing drugs on the market.  This is mainly caused by FDA regulations.  Like anything they can be improved upon but you have to do so carefully so that they can still protect the public from bad drugs.

As a consumer, there isn't much you can do.  You need the drugs you need to stay alive.  If there are alternative or generic options, those can be good.  PR is still important to these companies though.  If you see them doing something you think is unethical, raise a fuss.  Let them know you are going to avoid their products when you can.  Hopefully, enough people complain they change their decision.
question: How are prescription drug makes able to sell drugs at such absurd markups, and is there anything consumers can do to change it?[removed] answer: The root of this is supply and demand, particularly enhanced by lack of competition.

Demand for medication is very high. It's being purchased because it's needed, or because it's required to have on hand. Supply is very limited, because just one entity is allowed to make it, because they funded or bought the research that established certain intellectual property: the "recipe" for that medication.

In that scenario, the market will still buy the product as the price gets higher. So, the company produces and sells the amount that they can produce and sell at the best rate of return on their investment (and what they can afford to produce with available capital).

This is single bottom line mentality.  Other concepts, such as Triple Bottom Line ("people, planet, profits"), seek to not always maximize profit if they can trade it for worthwhile progress on their "people" and "planet" metrics. I wouldn't say that the consumer can always choose a triple bottom line company to buy medication from (although if it is available, it might be worth extra money to you, or at least you could choose it).  I suppose the least you could do is to demand legislation (and support it when it arrives by writing lawmakers or testifying for it) that opens the market up to competition by breaking down intellectual property barriers so that more than one entity can produce a medication.  Just be aware that as the profits in the pharmaceutical research industry fall, the money available to do that pharmaceudical research is also impacted.  Think if it this way: with low market competition, they will try to make it as expensive as possible.  With high market competition, they will try to make it as *cheap* as possible, with everything that goes along with "cheap".
question: How can someone deny being a feminist whilst also supporting equal treatment of men and women?[removed] answer: Whenever you hear the phrase 'equal treatment', you need to ask where the line of 'equality' is being drawn.

Consider sexual harassment.  Imagine you went out to a frat party and got a little too drunk.  When you wake up, you find yourself stripped down to your skivvies with a dick drawn on your face.

If you're a man, this is something you more or less laugh off.  It's your fault you got drunk and put yourself in a position where frat boys could play stupid pranks on you.  No harm, no foul.

If you're a woman, you contact the police and look for people to get arrested.

If you want men and women to be treated equally in this situation, then you're either imposing men's standards onto women or vice versa - in either case, you're making half the population submit to social conventions that are likely to make them uncomfortable.

And that's where the opposition to feminism comes in.  Feminism, as practiced in the modern day, isn't really about 'equal treatment' so much as it is about imposing a feminine ideal of social convention onto men.
question: How can someone deny being a feminist whilst also supporting equal treatment of men and women?[removed] answer: The idea feminism preaches is equality, and I agree with that, but the it seems means more than that to a lot of people.

I can't agree with feminists wanting to be payed as much as men while statistics show on average women work less and don't negotiate pay as much. Men gravitate to high earning jobs and work because they are more likely to be the sole breadwinner (that is a culture issue, but no one is purposelly excluding women from working). The way I see it women by in large have all the opertunities that men have to be educated and make a living, at least in North America. If you want to be a stay at home mom or focus on your career it's up to you, the ball is on your court.

I realize that as a man I'm privileged that I can walk alone at night without the fear of being assualted, but I don't feel guilty about it (that should be the job of the assailant).

I have heard the opinions of women being quite blatantly dismissed (that's not cool).

If feminism really means equality, than perhaps equality is a better word to use. That I can get behind.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: I am dyslexic and it is actually quite commonly said that dyslexia doesn't exist in China, it's a bit more complex than that, but basically, the characters do not affect dyslexics in the same way as letters do. 

These are a few interesting links that should tell you more, firstly an article about someone who is severely dyslexic in English but not at all in Japanese - _URL_1_

The second is an article on the discovery that chinese 'dyslexics' actually suffer from a deficiency in a totally different part of the brain to english ones - _URL_0_
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: My understanding is that dyslexia is primarily (in about 80% of cases) a disorder of phonemic processing; i.e. the capacity of the brain to order sounds into meaningful chunks. I assume that languages which represent *meaning* with characters such as Chinese and Japanese take some of this work out the equation: for example the Japanese character for fire () can be pronounced a few different ways, but it always has the meaning "fire." This versus English and other languages whose writing only carries meaning *after* you've done the phonemic assembly required, meaning that "f.i.r.e." means nothing until you've put the letters together and translated them mentally into a sound. I would assume that what you would see in languages like Chinese and Japanese is people with dyslexia having an easier time unless something was written in the phonetic Pinyin or Kana (for Chinese and Japanese, respectively) at which point presumably some of the phonemic processing issues would emerge. 

There is also a small subset of dyslexics (20% or so) where the issue lies in visual/spatial processing, and has to do with the brain not being able to correctly mentally orient letters. I imagine for these folks Chinese might be a little easier because the complexity of the characters would help you to find the meaning regardless of its perceived orientation, but you would probably still have a hard time. 

Source: I'm a pediatric occupational therapist who has read some books and articles in addition to working with lots of kiddos with language-based learning disabilities. The piece about dyslexia being based in phonemic and sometimes spatial processing is well-established neuroscience. The piece about why it might be different in pictographic languages is my educated speculation, so let the reader beware.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Hey Redditor!

My degree background is in Psycholinguistics, which is basically put: understanding how language functions in the brain. 

I actually did a research project on dyslexia and hope I can be a help explaining it.

So, symbol languages, in linguistic terms, is called a logographic system. This basically means that the language is communicate (in writing systems) through logos, or symbols, representing - usually - a "chunk" or what is called a morpheme. A combination of these morphemes in a particular pattern and combination represent a word or phrase.

Languages like English are considered alphabetic (cause - you know - the alphabet).

There's a lot of different things to consider you'd need more information from studying to field, but basically our ability to read has mapped on to previously developed parts of the brain, utilizing their functions to process language. For alphabetic system, they are usually called "t-junctions" meaning before modern times, letter like the "o" weren't actually round, but were a series of lines making almost a diamond shape that has altered over the years to the circular "o" we all know and love.

Alphabetic languages actually access a part of the brain (which I can't currently recall) that has to do with your lexical phonetic storage system - meaning you link the letter to a specific sound (with has its variations between words in English... but that's a different topic all together). That is how it is simply organized.

Logographic systems actually activate parts of the visual cortex not activated in alphabetic systems (or only activated minimally). There are actually MRI testing that has been done on this demonstrating the results.

What's really cool is the fact that because these two systems of writing/reading don't full connect, a person who is dyslexic in one system, such as English, could be fully able to read and write with easy in another system, like Japanese, because of this lack of overlap between logographic and alphabet systems (you can find case studies on this which are actually pretty rad!) 

There is much debate as to why dyslexia happens in the first place, but some of the best journal articles dispute that it has to do with the fact that writing and reading is a relatively new systems to our brains, and might have to do with the fact we are utilizing previous skills for other task that have evolved in our brain, to map the ability to read and write and make it accessible.

If you have any questions about it, or want me to send some academic literature your way, PLEASE reach out! I nerd out over stuff like this  < 3
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: On a side note: Korean, or Hangul, is read kinda like English. Korean "symbols" are actually just a few letters crammed into a little block. It's like taking the word "talk" and rearranging the letters in a 2x2 grid:

t a
l k

Edit: words
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Just a side point... Korean is actually a phonetic language with an alphabet -- much more phonetic than English.  You could learn to read it in about 20 minutes if you have the time.  So dyslexia in Korea is pretty much the same as in English

(Source, I've been living and studying in Korea now for several years)
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: I have dyslexia and have studied about dyslexia previously. Dyslexia is a specific learning difficulty similar to dyspraxia, dyscalculia and ADHD. All of the overlap and it is extremely common to have more than one (I have dyslexia and dyspraxia). 

Dyslexia has a lot more to it than just have difficulty reading and writing, it come with difficulties in memory, attention, word finding, organisation, time management and so many other areas. Other language difficulties can include difficulties knowing which sentence particles to use, confusing similar or opposite words (e.g. Left and right), difficulty structuring sentences so that they make sense, and knowing which tense to use and the different conjugation of words (e.g. What is the past tense of 'write'). These are all things that would be experienced regardless of the language you speak/read. 

As an adult my main difficulties are not to do with reading and writing, they are to do with memory and organising my though processes. I make a lot of speech errors, I find it very hard to explain things in a logical way even though they make perfect sense in my head. In terms of writing my difficulties are in structuring my ideas. I do still have difficulty with reading and writing but I've learned to manage this over the years. 

TL;DR there is a lot more to dyslexia that spelling and reading, most of which would happen regardless of the language used.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Just want to clarify that while Chinese is a symbol language, Korean (hangul) and Japanese (hiragana/katakana) are alphabetical, though they often refer back to the Chinese symbols (especially in Japanese).
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Dyslexia is a problem with the brain's interpretation of relating written language to the sounds they make. In a nutshell, there is no difference in how dyslexia affects english-speakers vs East Asian languages.

The scrambling of letters explanation people give for dyslexia is an analogy for how the brain mixes up sounds/words. It isn't exactly what dyslexia does.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Korean is NOT a "symbol language", btw. It has an alphabet like English. In fact, considering how shit our spelling system is, we're practically a symbol language compared to it.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Dyslexia is a condition where the brain struggles to translate a written language to a non written one, ie the voice in your head when you read or write. 

Prosopagnosia is the inability to recognise faces. So you could look at a person and have no idea who they are until they speak or you recognise their perfume or some other non face que. It is not an inability to see, just to process faces.

Dyslexia is similar - you can see the symbols, you know they come together and create meaning, but your brain struggles incredibly hard to figure out what that is.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Good question, but an FYI. Korean is actually a phonetic language, and is in some ways, easier to use than english.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Korean is not a "symbol language" if by that you mean logographical. If Korean is a "symbol language" then so is every language in Europe. 

Japanese is hardly one, too. They use occasional logographs but also have an alphabetic system.  

Edit: OP you might enjoy this:

_URL_2_
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Just saying, the Korean language are not symbols, they don't have a meaning in each character. While Japanese (kanji) , Chinese do
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: I'm not an expert in dyslexia but am a Chinese speaker.

Written Chinese is not an alphabetic or syllabic language so dyslexia in Chinese is not really related with how sounds are represented but how the symbols are written. You know, Chinese characters are actually made up of components put in specific positions and written using a specific stroke order. If any of those components/strokes are **1)** missing or superfluous (e.g.  "sky" vs  "big",  "sun" vs  "eye"), **2)** put in the wrong place (e.g.  "very" vs  "dog",  "book/root" vs  "not yet" vs  "end"), or **3)** wrongly written (e.g.  vs  vs ), it could cause problems for the readers.

**Examples:**
_URL_7_
In the the circled character above, some strokes are missing. (The correct form would be  )

_URL_8_
Here the upper part of the character is horizontally mirrored.

_URL_7_
In image 1.9, the second character () has an extra horizontal stroke.

In image 1.11, the characters are supposed to be  , which means in this case the left and right of the first character got reversed, and the wrong component is used in the right hand side of the second word.

Apart from the mistakes in how a character is written, there are also problems with the mixing up of characters similar in form or related in meaning.

**Examples:**
_URL_9_
In image 1.1,  (ancient wheel hub) is used instead of  (bath).
In image 1.2,  (a cannon) is used instead of  (to run).

In image 1.3,  should be  . This happens because  and  are often used together. ( means school)

Of course there are a host of other symptoms but I guess the above are several of the more obvious.

**More examples:**
_URL_8_
_URL_9_

**Reference** (in Chinese): _URL_9_

Edit: formatting
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: I am dyslexic and its not that you see stuff backwards its that the siginaling from your brain to you hands gets messed up amd I end up writing the wrong letter or 8 just skip words all together when I write. I really hate grammar Nazi btw
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: There is a profound difference in the number of dyslexics between English and Japanese speakers.

This article places it at 5-6% dyslexics among English speakers compared to 1.5% in speakers of Japanese.

_URL_10_
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Korean is not symbolic, it's alphabetic.

Japanese is a mixture of both symbolic and alphabetic. 

Anecdotally, it's very easy to be dyslexic in Chinese script and to even "lose" the written language. With an alphabet, like Hangul or Latin, it's hard to forget because you use letters to construct words and sounds - words are always being built when written or said without much memorization. Chinese characters don't carry sound and so must be memorized. If you didn't do well in school, you're kind of screwed.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: My dyslexia doesn't allow me to write down the correct number on a piece of paper or say it correctly. I always manage to be a full power off. IE 1,234.56 - >  12,345.6 or 1,234.56 - >  123.45

If I see the number physically or hear it I have no issue. I do know if I formulate the number in my head I have a 50% of output it wrong.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Purely anecdotal, and without any formal training in learning disabilities, but from my experience teaching English in Japan I think it can exist for Japanese people l. How would i know if I'm teaching them English? 

Well i have a few kid students who have severe trouble memorizing the alphabet as well as reading and writing basic words. All children struggle at first but these are long term students who still can't even spell their names after studing for years. I speak japanese and ive started testing their japanese ability and even asked their parents about their regular school work and it seems they have a lot of trouble in school with Japanese. One kid couldnt even write his own name in Japanese as a 3rd grader in elementary. These kids are otherwise normal.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Obviously our P's, b's, and d's are very similar.  Same with lots of other of our letters.  It isn't as bad in certain languages because of subtle differences in the characters in general and written stroke patterns.

Source: am person with dysgraphia dyslexia who can read Japanese katakana with little trouble.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Dyslexia is mainly a problem between the spoken and the written language. It can happen when you read or write. In general when you have it with writing the fingers type faster than you actually think the word, so in many cases certain letters are mixed up. And even when you read that word, with dyslexia your brain doesn't recognize that you mixed these two letters up.  
  
I would imagine that this goes for all languages as people that have dyslexia in one language in general also have it in a 2nd or 3rd one they might learn.  
  
Now there are ways how to help kids with that and today with computers and word you barely see this happen in the everyday world as we all sometimes type faster than we think. And word knows how to correct these little problems quite well.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: My understanding is that there are many, many types of dyslexias, too numerous and can exhibit themselves in various intensity. While phonemic processing may be one type that some dyslexics suffer less with iconographic scripts, there are others (ex. difficulty navigating through tables) that they would do rather badly in, regardless of what language type is used.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: i think to get the conversation started on the right foot, we should all be aware that Korean is not a symbol language.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: So there are a few different levels of severity when we talk about dyslexia--there's the one that's commonly thought of when you say "dyslexia" that generally results from auditory processing difficulties during critical developmental periods where people mix up the phonemes of speech sounds, sometimes due to frequent ear infections, and there are the deeper forms of dyslexia where people actually look at the word "giraffe" and think "cow! wait, no, giraffe?".

The sound processing one is the typical dyslexia and it starts with speech sounds. If your brain hears different sounds when you're learning letters (someone says "dog" and shows you D O G while you hear "bog" once in a while) you're going to create neuronal associations that aren't typical, which sometimes persist into adulthood.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: As someone who suffers from mild dyslexia (mostly when there are multiple rows of text such as in a book, i get stuck on the same line a few times, or re read a word a few times) 

I do not suffer any difficulty in japanese, i am currently learning japanese and i find that the kanji is very easy for me to remember.

However, i do find that the katakana are very difficult for me to remember as they are in many cases quite similar, also in hiragana i struggle with warene and also meand nu
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: I'm suffering from dysgraphia, it's kinda like dyslexia but with writing (the "drawing" movements) and when I write language with Roman alphabet I can't write much more than 2-3 pages at the time while in japanese I could write a book (actually I don't know enough words for that but one day, maybe) without having intense pain in my fingers. That's a great way to face this problem and I'm still learning (second year at high school in France)
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Korean is alphabetic, with each 'block' made up of a Consonant, then vowel, and third consonant.

Japanese had two alphabets, Hiragana, consistanting od 46 symbols, katakana, effectively cursive/bold and Witten with sharp letters. Kanji is the Japanese name for Chinese characters used in Japanese script, and I'd slowly dying out, expecially with smart phones.

Korea only stoped using Chinese characters after World War Two themselves.
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Dyslexia is a problem with the brain's interpretation of relating written language to the sounds they make. In a nutshell, there is no difference in how dyslexia affects english-speakers vs East Asian languages.

The scrambling of letters explanation people give for dyslexia is an analogy for how the brain mixes up sounds/words. It isn't exactly what dyslexia does.

And now I am an expert too!
question: How is being dyslexic in symbol languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) different from being dyslexic in English?[removed] answer: Dyslexia/Dysorthography in Polish are also much different than in English.  
_URL_11_

Ps. You could be dyslectic in one language and not in other.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: dopamine / Adrenaline stuff doesn't sit well with me, it doesn't really play a role in WHY you feel sleepy. 2 Hours of studying requires extensive use of the brain centers which releases a host of different kinds of neurotransmitters that stimulate long term potentiation. Skyrim on the otherhand, does not really utilize the brain at all that much. All you are doing in skyrim is the same old practiced routines over and over again. Probably the first couple times of playing skyrim, you had trouble playing for 5 hours a day, until you practiced it enough to be easy. It's kind of like a baby walking. First couple of times, only 2 minutes a day. Now, you can walk for hours. Same stuff, just practiced until you aren't really thinking anymore.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Because your brain releases small, constant spurts dopamine and adrenaline when you're playing a video game that excites you. You feel tired due to constant dopamine being released, but you stay up because of the constant adrenaline being released. When you study...you're bored. Nothing is really being released other than you just getting tired because of a tough day.


I'm sure somebody can provide a lot more information on it!
Cheers!


Source: wrote a report on it. (Junior in highschool and a gamer.)
Edit: spelling. Wording.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Also assuming that you study with a book instead of a computer, the light source is most likely affecting the suprachiasmatic nucleus and your circadian rhythms. Looking at a LCD screen can trick your brain into thinking it's the daytime, and thus you're less tired.
Source: _URL_0_
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Because studying is boring and Skyrim is fun.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Because exploring caves is more fun than calculus.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: A lot of these answers are completely in favor of video games, like they were a werewolf, or some other mystical personal trainer. The answer is that you are not realizing what joy other activities can bring you. Video games are great for understanding what mastery means. If you apply the same routine, but create the task, you are basically doing the same thing as Skyrim. 

If you are not able to focus on real work for very long, do not over analyze it. An example of this dilemma may be reading for a class. The way to work through this type of work, most efficiently, is to rest or recover by writing. 

1. You read, enough to where you comprehend, not over-doing it, spurring a wild day dream instead. 

2. You recover, by writing a note or anything that pertains to further comprehension. 

3. Repeat until assignment is finished. 

This technique works just like how walking does, left foot, right foot. Just think of what you are really trying to do by tackling an entire reading assignment, all at once -- It's like hopping all-day on one foot. 

The key part of the reading technique is, the studying picks up momentum as the subject gets completely engrossed by your attention.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: 2 hours? That's like a marathon!  I get sleepy after reading 20 mins.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Video games are specifically designed to counter this. They keep changing environment, stratgies, lullsi nhte action etc to keep you interested. The diablo 3 team talked about changing the color palette of the environment every 30 minutes of gameplay. (before the D3 hate, its a well designed game, it was just saddled with a greedy vision.)
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: I am just taking an educated guess and also based on my own observation:

Let's say you are studying. After an hour, you will probably get bored out of your mind, you get easily distracted by the slightest thing (sleepiness, "tired", headache, etc). Maybe you *are* sleepy or tired. But maybe you are subconsciously making yourself tired or sleepy because you need a valid justification to stop studying. Its like a defense mechanism. Studying is perceive as a danger and to get out of that danger, you are initiating your defense mechanism.

The opposite happens when you are playing Skyrim. You *want* to play. You want to *keep* playing. So, not matter if you are tired of sleepy, your desire will fight off your needs.

Basically, its what you **really** want to do.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Have you considered you just might be reading the wrong books? I read all of the time. Some books I could read all day and night, finish, and immediately re-read. I will never get tired of them. Other books will put me to sleep before I'm 100 pages in. 

I'm sure there are games that bore the hell out of you. You enjoy Skyrim, but would you enjoy Gran Turismo? Madden? Starcraft?
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Because of the light from the screen hitting your eyes, which then tells your brain to not secrete melatonin.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Bright and blueish lights, such as natural sunlight, inhibit the creation of melatonin in the brain to signal the beginning of the day. 

Most computer, tablet, and touch phone displays, however, also emit a blue light that triggers this inhibition, affecting the user's ability to sleep and potentially disrupting the user's sleep cycle. 

Programs like f.lux, which runs in the background of your computer and when night time arrives, f.lux automatically adjusts the color temperature (making whites appear reddish or salmon), thus reducing the display's brightness to match the room's lighting. The change is noticeable at first but turns imperceptible after a few seconds.

I get tired when playing a video game as much as reading a book after an hour or two when f.lux is running.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Here is a possible reason (maybe I'm wrong?).

Are you studying in a bed, perhaps laying down.  Are you reading in bed, perhaps laying down?

Whenever you do anything where your body is programmed to sleep, you are more likely to fall asleep.

I got this information from my wife when she took Psychology courses as part of her Psychology degree.

I wouldn't mind being corrected if I'm wrong.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: A video game provides immediate feedback, appropriate skill challenge, goal, a beginning, an end, and the ability to get better at it. Reading or studying is often done for the sake of studying/reading with little of the previously stated elements. It's largely why it's best to learn by doing rather than learn by studying; when you do, those elements come at you naturally.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Because while your are playing Skyrim, you are RUNNING FOR YOUR LIFE IN A FOREST AND OH MY GOD LOOK A DRAGON WHERE DID YOU CAME FROM? OH SHIT I DIED!

When this happens, your brain keeps you awake. You can't kill a dragon while you sleep.

(Also, your monitor is as bright as day light. Use _URL_1_ to dim it)
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: For the same reason they say if you do what you love, you will never work a day in your life.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Because playing video games is more fun than reading your chemistry textbook.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: ELI5: I would suspect reading and vidya games use different parts of the brain, one has to translate the written word into the imagination and memory, the other presents you with everything pre-imagined but sparks the part of the brain that makes choices.

I feel sleepy after 2-3 hours of study but I am told this is my brain needing to sought and file the info, and it does not need me moving about so much and getting in its way.

I have read some novels that have kept me up all night, but they are generally the type that require less brain power to get through.

I have played vidya games for days at a time (everquest I am looking at you)... no idea why or how my body could keep going, cannot do this any more but I suspect I wasted my best years of my brain doing it.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Your scumbag brain is trying to keep you alive.  It cares about stuff like getting attacked by dragons and walking across the land looking for potatoes to eat by the hundreds not just because it's cool, but because it keeps changing the sort of stimulus you get.  Your brain thinks that just maybe you're about to be attacked by a tiger and it wants to be ready.  

By contrast, then you read one book and page after page is the same, your brain knows you're not about to be attacked by a tiger so it wants to go to sleep so it can keep you from being attacked by a tiger even better tomorrow (and maybe score because it likes that, too).  

Protip:  to keep your brain interested in studying, use different approaches:  flashcards, audio, charts, pictures, etc.  Change it up and your brain will stay interested longer.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: I can't believe everybody's glossing over the obvious reason here.

**It's because you find reading boring.**

The things that bore you, fail to stimulate your brain. Your brain begins shutting off, and eventually there's not enough energy for it to sustain itself. **That's one of the factors.**

The other factor is effort. In Skyrim, you're merely exploring. That's easy for your brain to do. Studying, on the other hand (different from merely reading) requires your brain to expend resources in trying to comprehend matter and store it in an organized manner. That's a huge strain on the brain, because it doesn't really like storing information in ways that it isn't used to storing usually. It's like the difference between lifting 5lbs and 40lbs with your hands.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: When studying, you're not getting immediate rewards for reading 3 chapters instead of 1 - just improved education, which is hard to quantify. In Skyrim, you probably get a trophy, and see a lot of cool scenery and enemies in the process.

Studying is not a game (unless you're a great student who knows how to take satisfaction from studying). Skyrim, like most games, gives you points and simulation experience for most things - even if you don't achieve anything worthy of mention.

This is actually more related to the concept of gamification in particular, than neuropsychology as a broad field.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: serious genuine studying uses a lot more brain than playing skyrim.

i'm an avid gamer and love skyrim.

but if you break it down, skyrim takes little intelligence. all you do is get a quest, kill a bunch of shit, chuck potions, retrieve item. Rinse and repeat.

Especially with modern games where you are handheld and instructed with great detail.

on the other hand, playing sc2 competitively will tire you very fast.

which is why in WCG, a pro sc2 player is scheduled to play 5 games roughly daily.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Your brain uses more than 20% of the energy you use.  When you're reading/studying (or doing other high willpower activities), you burn tremendous amounts of glucose and you can get tired. Skyrim, however, doesn't require the same sort of mental energy. Much as you may level up your willpower in the game, none is required to play. Try keeping your blood sugar up when doing high willpower activities!
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Reward. There is little instant reward in studying. There is though, when playing Skyrim, a constant stream of immediate and short term goals and rewards. It is not correct that you are not tired while you are playing, indeed, when you get up immediately afterwards, you probably notice that you quickly feel tired. Instead, with a constant reward structure, your mind simply ignores your body's cues.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Outside of all the pseudo psychological BS that everyone is spouting, the real answer is much simpler and well documented.

The light from the computer screens prevents the production of melatonin which is required for sleep.

_URL_3_

ELI5 version:

The heavy amounts of blue light coming from your electronics makes your body think that it is still time to be awake.

_URL_2_
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: the best way to study for me (in med school)

study for 20-30 minutes stop when sleepy/bored.  facebook or play bejewled or redit for 5-10 minutes and study again for another 20-30 minutes with reddit reward for 10 min.

i used a whole 8 hours that way and aced shit.

i was failing when i was cramming hours and hours before.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Another thing you should consider is the fact that your screen is really bright. Because it is so bright and you stare at it directly, it can mess with your sleep cycle. For that reason, it is recommended to not use the computer for a few hours before you are planning to go to sleep.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: The explanation I was given that in regards to lighting, LEDs are especially bad in regards to keeping you awake due to their ability to simulate light spectrum. This specific spectrum apparently tricks your brain into assuming it's daytime, thus making it harder to fall asleep.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Another thing is that an LCD screen is basically a big light. Staring at a screen at night makes your brain repress melatonin and keeps you up. Reading on the other hand doesn't hinder melatonin and allows you to get drowsy and fall asleep like normal.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: I'm going to agree with the people that are saying that its mostly to do with circadian rhythms and bright light. Specifically that its the blue light spectrum that affects you more. Red light will generally make you feel groggy.

Here's some related info:
_URL_4_

_URL_5_
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Check out the work by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. He wrote a book called 'Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience'  The goal of a good video game such as Skyrim is to get a user into this mental state.  _URL_6_
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Aside from what's been mentioned below, RPGs tend to deliver challenges in small, discrete chunks. You fall victim to the "just 5 more minutes" syndrome for hours.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Occam's razor: studying is boring, boredom makes you sleepy. Skyrim is fun, and you want to keep doing fun things. It's purely psychological.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Oh you are tired after Skyrim, that's why you sleep through you next day of classes and exams :P
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Because you care about your character progression in Skyrim.

And you don't care much about knowing differential equations.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Reading = Ben Stein roll call...
Video games = Katy Perry on a trampoline in a tube top.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: TIL make studying intense as fuck to release adrenaline and go all night
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: *bunch of scientific words dopamine, adrenline, hormones

tl;dr - because you're bored
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Congratulations on making it to the Front Page of Reddit!  _URL_7_
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Because you WANT to play Skyrim, and you HAVE to study.
question: Why do I get sleepy after reading 2 hours or studying but my scumbag brain can play Skyrim all night without getting tired?Why do I get tired after I have been reading for a while and my eyelids get heavy while I can pull an all nighter playing videogames and not be slightly tired until I stop playing? Neuropsychologists of Reddit, help! answer: Dude. video games are such a compulsive experience.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: *TL;DR*: **It's not all about money**. There's all sorts of different reasons why it's worth shelling out a lot more cash for.

A big one is pride due to social expectations. There's a certain negative and slightly embarrassing status associated with living at home versus a more adult-seeming being-in-charge of your own surroundings when you're living in a bachelor pad or equivalent. It's doubly so when your peer group of friends or workmates all have their own places and you don't have the freedom to invite them over. Ditto the mooching aspect of being a stay-at-home adult/child. Eventually, to a lot of people, it just doesn't seem... right or fair and so they move out. And we as humans want to "own" stuff, and be able to look around at our own little spot and say "this is mine because I'm paying for it / renting it out of my own pocket."

Some people find that being too close to their parents eventually drive them nuts. They want to live a certain way or not have any limitations on their behaviors. But there's often conditions on having someone else's roof over your head and those eventually become too onerous. OP asked about this from an American perspective, and so it's quite appropriate that one of the key reasons is "freedom". :)

Others reach a point in a relationship where it's too clumsy and confined to enjoy that relationship at their parents. Most parents don't appreciate their kid having a sex-buddy in their bedroom for a whole weekend. Thumpthumpthump from the second floor becomes old rather quickly.

The parents have a say too, particularly if they're approaching retirement. "Junior, get the hell out so we can live our own life and we won't have to waste our limited money on feeding you!". They want the house to look and feel the same as before they left for that one-week tour in the camper, not come home to an empty fridge and an unwashed sinkful of dishes.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Most cultures have "coming of age" rituals, whether they realize it or even recognize what they are. For Americans, getting a car is one, as well as moving out on your own. A lot of this is stemmed from the fact that we value independence and self motivation so much. Staying with your parents implies that you are being lazy, or continuing to be a burden on them. It's similar to people judging someone who is letting their children breastfeed at six-years-old. By staying with your parents, who don't need your help and are often eager to get you out of the house, you are "delaying" maturity.

Personally, I think this stems from a couple of different things. Historically, Americans had their children young, and had a lot of them. My grandmother never went past the 4th grade and had three children by the time she was eighteen. While she was married, my grandfather was in construction and would use that as an excuse to leave them months at a time, drinking all of the money he earned and never giving her any. So she stayed with her parents. This was considered shameful. While she was working in a shirt factory, my great-grandfather was the main means of support for them, even though he was older and had health issues. She was a burden on them. 


In Asian cultures, there is a big emphasis on staying with your parents and getting a good job so you can send them money in their old age. But in the last fifty years or so, American culture has gotten accustomed to the idea that parents are wealthy enough to take care of themselves, so your filial duty to your parents is more akin to making sure you visit them. But even then, when the economy has required most people to move for their jobs, it's commonplace that children live states away, which compared to Europe, is like having all of your children live several countries away from you.

Now, we have a conundrum. Young adults struggle to find non-service jobs, and when they do, they are still struggling to support themselves on one income, leading them to stay with their parents. While they are belittled for this, within a decade or so, that same generation will have little to nothing saved up for retirement. With medical expenses looming, they are starting to demand that children who don't live with them to come back and help them.

Once upon a time, our society was capable of the older generation sustaining themselves while the younger generation did the same in the same immediate area. This led to a lot of our current perceptions. But now, good work is scarcer, causing people who stay in their hometown to have jobs that barely keep them floating above water, or moving and not being able to care for the family that once wanted to kick them out.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: As an middle aged American, there was a time especially in the 1970s 
 and early 1980s that you would be publicly ridiculed if you hit 19 yo and you were not:  1. At college, 2. In the military, 3. Living in your own apartment while working a full time job. The terms "loser", "moocher", "deadbeat" were common insults heaped upon those legal adults still living at home with their parents. The reason was that apartment rents, cars, college tuition, food, utilities and entertainment were ridiculously cheap compared to today's world. You could work a factory job 40 hrs a week and could afford a new car and your own apartment if not your own home. That world is gone today. Wages have generally stagnated for the past 40 years but the cost of living has skyrocketed. I can't think of a single person including me who borrowed money to attend a university because it was pretty cheap especially the state colleges. Unfortunately, parents today who are my age think that their kids are not doing as well as they did due to their own fault. This is ignorant and naive thinking. Smart kids will not even go to college at all today and start a small business like a pizza place or get a skilled trade. Animal house is long, long over folks.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: The simplest way I can put it... 

From the time you are born, your parents are trying to develop you into a self sustaining, functional member of society.  When you move out of their house and start your own home, it is your first proclamation of freedom and maturity.  Until you do that, you are just living off of someone else, which suggests that you haven't properly developed into an adult yet.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I think its a cultural thing. 
Everybody does it and its a sign of growing up. Therefore you want to do it too.
Also you can do what you want if youre not home. 
Speaking for myself even if youre in your late 20s your mother asks you "where are you going" "why are you doing this" "take a scarf with you" 
So I think its a mixture between cultural "pressure" and beeing fed up to justify everything you do. 
Also I guess its natural behavior even by animals. If youre raised you leave and found your own family.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Independence is pretty important in American culture. That's why so many Americans move far from their hometown upon graduation, this usually begins in College. Americans get their first taste of "freedom" from the dominance and control of their parents. We want to be able to do the things we like, without judgement from the previous generation who may not agree with the decisions we make.

On the flip side, not leaving your parents home in your 20s is seen as negative here if you are a healthy fully functional adult. It is viewed as incompetence or laziness from some Americans because you don't have the financial independence or education to provide for yourself, let alone a family.

It is also seen as more acceptable for a woman to be living with her parents than a man. That I don't really have an explanation for besides maybe it's a sexual/dating thing. If both parties live with their parents then who's home would you go to? Since still in this day and age men are primarily considered the providers, they're the ones more likely expected to have a place of their own. This also speaks for financial independence which because of the previous statements is typically viewed favorably on a man by the opposite gender.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: This is a somewhat complex question because I believe many factors come in play. In more eastern cultures, children don't move out until they have graduated university or landed their main full time job (source: am easterner). In many western families it's 18-out. And I think a comparaison of these two philosophies goes a long way. And I think it's hard to ELI5 it. Basically IMO the western culture one (note: not every western family does this obviously) puts you in a shit position at first, you're young and poor and clueless. But you learn on your own and become very responsible because of that. On the opposite, the eastern one, you move out only when you're comfortable financially. You live no pressure and arguably an "easier" young adulthood. But is that good? Maybe it causes more happiness due to less stress. And it might also make you less responsible and auto-sufficient because you haven't been through the shit those 18-out people have.

I think a middle ground is ideal. But to answer your question, it's a mixture of social expectations in the west, and also getting the person to be able to live on their own. Kinda like the bird mama who watches the baby birds jumping off the nest so they can eventually fly on their own thing. Idk.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Well, money wasnt an issue in my decision because my step mother was making me pay at least $500/month for just a room in a house which I felt was a shitty deal. She had no job so I was pretty much paying her to be lazy at that point. I'll GLADLY take a bit more of a financial hit for 100% freedom!

I wanted to actually see my GF, of 4 years at the time, every day without needing permission from both my parents and hers. 

I hated my step mother so I wanted to get out as soon as possible.

I wanted to be able to throw parties and let friends crash at my place if they drank too much. 

I wanted the satisfaction of knowing I could make it with out my parents help and wanted to make sure I was ready for the real world and what ever came next in life. 

I wanted a BIG dog and I wasn't allowed to have one. Now I have a big doofy Lab/Malamute mix that is fucking adorable!

Social expectations had nothing to do with my decision. I am a home owner at age 22 (bought an awesome double wide mobile home :D). All of my friends still live with their parents still so no real pressure at this age. 

After I started looking for my own place, my father was looking to move 3 hrs away and my first career job was here so I definitely needed to find my own place. 

Biggest priority tho - Being able to walk around my own place naked as the day I was born
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: There is no single explanation for this as life is too fluid and everyone has their own reasons specific to them. In my opinion, as a Yorkshireman, my parents effectively put their lives on hold to raise me and my brother. We both felt leaving home and setting up lives of our own would be the grown up thing to do and give our parents the space and freedom they deserved. Having your own home is much more satisfying than having just a room in someone elses house. Also, I couldn't wait to get out of our shit pot town.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Not american, but nobody could get me back to live together with my parents. I have a good relationship to my mother and my step dad, but hell no thanks.

Having an own home and be it just a room and a toilet is so much better.

Money is not the point here in my eyes. If it works for you - nice, stay with the fam. But it is really nice to be independent and have some space of your own.
Edit: Also - girls.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I think a lot of it depends on your culture.  I'm 100% Italian (3rd generation.  Both sets of my great-grandparents came over from Italy.)

In my family, you simply do not leave home to move out until you're married.  That wasn't just my own parents' house - my cousins were all the same, as were both of my parents  &  my aunts  &  uncles.

Most of my friends (all of who were not 100% Italian) were chomping at the bit to get out of their parents' house.  They wanted all the freedom and "Adult" status.  Though I really didn't like living with some of my parents' rules, I was able to save a lot of money so that when I did meet my SO, we were able to move into a nicer house than we would have, had I left when I turned 18.

I would infer that the Italian tradition to stay home until you're married is b/c family is so important and strong a bond.  Honestly I never really thought much about it and when I was younger I thought most families were the same.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: It's a cultural thing.  For the baby boomer generation and most of Gen X, the economy was so good that living with your parents meant you were a failure or there was something wrong with you.  As a consequence moving out and getting your own place is viewed as a rite of passage. 

Now things are different.  Personally, I don't understand the stigma.  I did move out between my third and fourth years of university, but there was plenty of room.  Looking back, it would have been much smarter to stay there for another few years, even contributing ~$500/m back for rent/groceries/etc I would have saved a TON of money I wasted on shitty apartments.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I moved out because I wanted to sleep naked. I never could because my mom always snuck into my room to kiss my nose while I was asleep and if my cat was my little spoon and sleeping with me my mom thought it was the cutest fucking thing in the world and would take pictures. Tbh they are cute pictures. I'm glad I have them now that my cat is dead.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: 33 year old successful Hispanic male here who married a woman with two adult children. First being a stepdad is hard and being a stepdad to a mom who coddles her kids is even harder. The reason leaving home is such a big goal is because success and maturity comes with struggle. When I was younger my family couldn't afford to send me to college and could barely afford to feed me. I knew it was best for me to move out and make a good life for myself so that's what I did. Now I am married to a woman with a 21 and 19 year old. They live at home don't pay rent, complain when asked to do chores, and just have this crazy sense of entitlement. Overall they are great kids, good grades in college, don't steal and not on drugs. However, I know they would be more mature, successful, and appreciative of the little things if they just went out on their own and learned how the real world works. Sometimes taking risks and being on your own is good and will teach you who you are as an individual instead of always relying on the safety of others.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Well, if you can't provide for yourself, you're surely not going to be able to provide for anyone else.  Think of it less about being set back financially and more about actually setting off financially, i.e. demonstrating an ability to manage your own affairs.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: For the most part, being *truly* independent can't happen until you move out of your parents house. Most adults like their independence.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: i'm 22 and about to move back in with my parents after being in the military so i can go to school full time. personally, i don't feel ashamed at all. the fact that i have an educational goal makes me fully grasp the fact that this is a financially smart decision for me, not to mention the support of my parents.

i think a big reason why people make it such a goal to move out of your parent's home is because there is such a focus on independence in american culture. it's too bad because a lot of people are screwing themselves because they have too much pride.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: The reasons would vary depending on your family, but I believe most people leave the parent's house so they can have more independence.  For the most part, if you depend on your parents financially then they have a greater influence the decisions you make. For example, lets say you like to stay out until 3 am in the morning.  If your parents don't like that, you're going to hear about it.  If you lived on your own it wouldn't be an issue.  

There are an infinite number of examples, all different depending on the family dynamic, but it's all about independence.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Not American here (Swedish), but this was important for me as well.

Personally, I moved out when I was 16 (country-side and senior high would have been a 2 hour commute one way).

It would have taken A LOT to make me move back after that.

I like my parents, but living with them is a different story. They expect conformance to what they consider "normal" in terms of daily rhythm, activities, etc. No more balancing my personal needs and wants with my parents' idea of what should be or happen. I got to decide when meals will be had is, I got to cook my own food, I go to bed and get up when I do and I keep as much or little order as is natural for me.

Just as I would not move in with a room mate who expects the house to be dead quiet between 10pm and 7am.

I still occasionally visit my parents for a week or so at a time, but anything longer than that and I can see old roles starting to set in.

If you really get along with your parents and your lifestyles are compatible then it's a different story, of course. For the people in bigger cities the situation is a bit different since housing is more expensive and harder to come by, so people live with their parents for longer.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: **MILLIONS OF YOUNG ADULTS REPLY:**  *have you met my parents?*
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Yeah ive learned now from talking to people of other cultures that they believe it completely taking care of all expenses and housing until a child is finished with school. Thats usually not the case here. My parents took advantage of me and was taking my money since i started working so i left when i was 17 and been on my own since :)
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Just had a flood with 3-4 inches in every room of my house. Because of this I had to move into my parents house with my wife, 2 kids, and dog. As grateful as I am that I had my parents here and as much as I love my parents I really thing living with them actually jreally hurt our relationship. There are things that I do that they don't aprove of and vice versa. When you are an adult having your parents dictate your life is obnoxuious and belittling. The last 5 months have easily been the hardest 5 months I've had in over a decade and it wasn't because my parents and I don't get a long it's just at some point your life deviates from being your parents "child" to being their "loving offspring". It's hard taking orders from your parents as 32 year old with his own family. Especially if the way that they parent differ from the way you would like to parent.

It is nice being able to visit my parents. But having my own home and my own space gives me confidence and let's me run my home the way I intend to run it. I don't know if this make sense and may just be babbling but yeah.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Even asking this question would make you look like a loser in America. The mindset in my culture (mexican american) is have a bunch of kids, baby them until they're adults, then kick them out when they're done with school and can work.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Let's be real-  it's so you can rip bong hits in the living room and get drunk and bring home whores from the bars at 3am and fuck all over the house
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I like my family better when I'm not living with them.  We fight constantly now and it's really tiring.

I also like being independent.  I don't like relying on people at all.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I love all my family  but I typically use the 3 Day rule. As in I will stay for 3 nights and leave before everyone wakes up in the morning on the 4th day(I just say good bye the night before) because typically the fourth day is when arguments start. I think there's just something about waking up with someone(weather it be a relative or friend) in your house that just pisses people off. Thats why I typically make an excuse about a business trip if someone tries staying longer than 3 nights at my house
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Capitalism. It forces people to split from their families and thereby creates more and more consumers.

Staying with parents under parents insurance 
Coming out buying independent insurance

Paying rent is not even a thing 
Pay your own rent 

Vehicle your parents bought
Using your own by borrowing loans

And many more
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Is there a country where people live with their parents their whole lives? 

Who doesn't want to get out, take control and start their own lives?
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I am 39 years old.  I share a 4-bedroom place with my brother and two very long-term friends.  We are all single guys with no kids, so splitting all of the living bills 4 ways makes it so much easier.  To find a 1-bedroom place on my own that is worth living in and is not someone's closet, I would have to substantially pay more than what I am now.

A couple weeks ago, I was talking to a woman on the phone and my living situation came up.  Her response what "So you have never had to be an adult yet.  This is not an episode of Friends, you know".  Never before had I wanted to reach through the phone and strangle someone as I did with her.  She assumed that since I was not living by myself that I was not acting like an adult, rather than not wasting resources for no good, goddamn reason.

If I ever ended up meeting someone and it progressed to the point where I would want to consider living with that person, I would definitely look into getting a place together, rather than her trying to move in to this place (which is patently ridiculous).

As a single guy, why would I be required to have a place that is empty all the time except for when I am there?  Why is it expected that I live in solitude to be considered an "adult"?  

Fuck, now I am pissed off again.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because at one point in history the government made it extremely easy for white middle class men to get their own suburban home, decent car and steady job in the city. This ideal image stuck with the culture until today, which is problematic because some of those opportunities are now gone or have been warped.

It used to be incredibly easy to buy and pay off a house. Now it's basically impossible because bankers and our parents seriously messed up the housing market.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I'm a grown up and like to make my own decisions. If I lived with either my mom or my dad they would try to run my life like I didn't make more money than both of them combined. 

Not saying I have it all figured out, but I'm no moron and I don't need anyone reminding me when to get haircuts.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Even try sneaking a date past your parents?
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Mine progressively got more and more about me needing my own space. I have a lot of hobbies and tend to vary greatly on when I come home. 

I lived with my parents during summers away from school.  I started at my Mom's place which is a one level apartment. Did that for one summer and we were about ready to tear each other's heads off. So the next semester I stayed at my Dad's house. It was where I grew up and I had my old bed room in the basement that had it's own bathroom, fridge and microwave, and most importantly an exit. So I basically didn't see him or my step mom the entire summer. I'd leave early in the morning and drive to the city my school was in for work and then come home late. Started to realize I was spending more on travel than an apartment in the city would cost, so I got one up between my school and my friends school further north. He moved in and we lived together till he transferred to another school in another state and I left to study abroad. When I got back, I moved in with another friend from high school and a friend I had met in College. 

After about 3 years, I decided that I had had enough of living with roommates and my girlfriend and I wanted a place so we got a newer nicer apartment. Now I'm biding my time saving up for a down payment on a house so that I can start my garage and yard requiring hobbies back up!

It does just come around to personal space and finances for me. My mom drives me nuts in medium to long term proximity. My dad too but it I saw him infrequently so it wasn't bad living there. Now I go down to visit them every other week or so and we get a long great!
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I'm an adult American living at home with Mom

For me, I don't think it is right to be constrained by cultural norms.  You do what is best for you - I'm under the same expectations as other Americans, but I've so far ignored them and focused on what will work best for me in the long term.  I've been planning on moving out for over a year now, but I'm not making the move until it's the right timing.  In the meantime, we live in an above average 4-bedroom house, and it is just my mother alone.  We don't see each other much.  I have my own space and bathroom that I maintain myself.  I help with utilities and food.  I'm not constrained on going out or coming home or essentially doing what I want.  The only differences with me having my own place is on how the common areas are maintained and what's in the fridge.  I'm making over $100k so I don't get hassled by my mother to do anything, since I am doing fine, I just haven't chosen to move out yet due to financial reasons.  I decided to buy property first and rent it out, so I've already established enough rental income that I could sustain myself indefinitely if I ever lost my job.  Now that I've established that, I am looking.  I think it's worth the extra few years of staying at home that I did to have that.

People talk about Asians vs westerners, but really I have seen plenty of Asian friends move out immediately after HS and never return, and Caucasians who have lived with parents into their 30s, and with children.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Not American but I can give you my take on it as a British person. So at 17 I joined the army then after basic and all my other training I opted to start renting a flat(sure it's not the same as buying) and for the 5 years I was in the army I had my own place, my own rules. It was pretty damn sweet. Then I decided to leave the army and move back home to be closer to the family, it took a little longer than I thought to get a job so I ended up moving back into my parents house I eventually got a job and then had the mindset that I would be back at theirs for a year and then move out to my own bit. After that year I hadn't moved out, was paying dig money which is completely fine by me. I ended up learning that where my family live it's almost impossible to have your own place up here(more so for renting) on your own I've been living in my parents for the past 5 years and that freedom I once enjoyed the memories of it have almost faded. I kinda got a little comfortable in living back at home but I've refocused my mind on goals that are achievable and hopefully I'll be out be his time next year back into my own place. For anyone wondering who's still reading, my refocus? It's all down to meeting a girl, not one that you are just happy hooking up with but one that I can actually see myself being with for a long time.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I can only speak for my self. I'm 27 now and still live at home. I' m now saving money to get my own place. Not renting but actually buying my own place. My parents have always told me: move put when you feel you are ready. Stay at home as long as you feel you need to stay home. They always helped and supported me. The way I'm saving now, within a half year I will be able to afford my own place. I however contribute financially at home. I don't want to live on my parents expenses. So what we do, is we have a same bank account and on that account everybody at home deposits money every month. This makes it a little bit easier ( more money for our expenses ). My goal was and still is to buy my own place. I don't want to rent as that, in my opinion, sets you back. Why pay for somebody else his/her bank loan ( your rent ) in stead of paying for your own loan. That's my 2 cents anyway because to make this work, you need to have a good relationship with your parents and everybody should stick to the plan. I'm also used to live in a full house, don't know if I would like to live alone without a wifey or somebody to keep me company ( grew up in a house of 7 people ).
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I can tell a lot of these responses are from young adults.

As an old(er) adult, with a man-child at home, I can explain my reasoning.

I want him to have a job and be able to live and function on his own. I want him to be a productive member of society. I may die tomorrow or in 30 years. He needs to know how to survive without me and his mother providing for him.

Where he is right now? Watching Twitch 90% of his free time, with no prospects for work other than working as a helper at a car wash. When he does leave the house, it's to go smoke pot with his friends. In other words, he is not doing one single thing to better himself.

I guess I should just let him do whatever he wants?

No. He needs to learn how to take care of himself so he will be successful in life.

I dont care if he is a doctor or a janitor or a mechanic or a lawyer, etc ,etc. He just needs to do something and he does nothing.

That is the problem with kids living with parents as an adult. They dont learn that you have to work and pay for things in the real world.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Basically it is a benchmark of growing up. To become a full-fledged adult, you need to be independent of your parents so that you can begin taking charge of your own life. A big part of that is having your own residence, especially if you are going to marry and start your own family by having children. Multi-generational homes are not bad and are common in some parts of the world, but (correct me if I'm wrong) usually the home is owned by the working-age children who house not only their children but their parents as well. That still meets the independence criteria because you own the home and provide for yourself and your dependents. That is what makes you an adult: you take responsibility for yourself and those who naturally depend on you.

**tl;dr** An adult is someone whom other people depend on. A child is someone whom no one depends on and who depends on others for their basic needs.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: It's weird to see the financial trends and over all economy change so much over a few short years. 

The entire way Americans and the rest of the world does things is changing economically, as well as psychologically. 

Is it because we are so much worse off financially, or is because the younger generations are just tired of trying?

  History of such atrocities like ww1 and ww2 behind us too far in the past, it may become a Grimm future. We need to put our youth first, stop being so selfish and wilfully ignorant. Knowing the newer generations are staying closer to family and utilizing a multi income situation is key in the world today.

 Stuff is expensive, and only 10% of the world falls into exec positions, 30% professional, the rest are just meaningless replacement jobs. 

Those jobs are not moving in scale with the current economy. That's why people are struggling. Not because they are choosing to.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Many parents fail to realize that they have to stop being the way they have been all your life and begin treating you as an equal or how they would any other adult. Its a hard balance of trying to do whats best for you, but also letting you learn on your own by your own failures and experiences. Parents need to make the shift of a guardian to an adviser and its a hard one. Most young people value their parents opinion, but crave the independence that comes with being on your own. Constantly having that caged bird feeling is a very stressful way to live your life. Ultimately these two issues combine and it simply just becomes to much to deal with. So they move out, regardless of the cost. This allows them to keep their sanity and also a healthy relationship with their parents.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Just moved out last month. 

For me, after living on my own for 4 years, it is tough to go back to a place where you are treated like a child still. Being our on your own, you can do whatever you want, when your want, because you want to. At home, it is always under a watchful eye who wants updates constantly and with parents who don't give you a choice on the matter sometimes.

For me, I felt my life was on hold after moving back with my parents
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: My parents are abusive. I needed to get out for my sanity and I have never once regretted it, even when money has been tightest.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: In my case, my parents were charging me $750/month to live at home and deal with all of their restrictions. Couldn't go out without asking and doing the "You know you can have people come over!" dance with my mom. Couldn't date because I was expected to introduce everyone to my mom before the first date. I couldn't even go to the bathroom in the middle of the night without having my mom slam the door open and demand to know what I was doing up. Then, when my sister was home from school, I couldn't even get a good night's sleep because she wanted to take a ridiculously long shower and then blow dry her hair every night around midnight, and we shared a bathroom. I was expected to be home for every meal, as well as clean the entire house for my mom on my only day off during the week. I was yelled at for attempting to do my laundry so that I could have clean clothes for work. I was expected to be buying all of my own groceries. I had zero privacy. And I was paying basically the same as living in an apartment. On top of that, I got to deal with my peers and coworkers giving me a hard time for living at home because, in their minds, I was living rent-free. And when I tried to discuss my "rent" with my mom, she insisted that she wasn't charging "that much". So I left. 

I ended up getting a great apartment and my base rent is only a bit more than what my parents were making me pay them. I live completely alone, close to where I work and any company I may work for in the future. I have my own routines, and most importantly, the privacy and freedom to do whatever the hell I feel like. I still visit my parents for dinner once a week, but I just could not keep living with them. I felt completely trapped and there was no financial benefit for it.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I'm originally from Venezuela, lived there till age 32 when I moved to the US. I'm 40 now, so I've been here almost a decade.

A poor economy has made the last two generations of Venezuelans live with their parents longer and longer, even after marriage, as low wages, high demand and low supply of housing make getting your own place really difficult. Most people I knew back there were desperate to get their own place, but few could afford it, even with a good job. When I got married, we lived with my mom till I was approved to come to the US. I hated it. I love my mother, but being 30, having a good job, and STILL not being able to afford even a small apartment without roommates is no way to live.

Once here, I got to experience what most Americans experience by the time they're done with school: Running my own home. It was an amazing experience. So I guess as someone who's had it both ways, I'd answer your question with "because delaying taking charge of your life in full is a terrible way to live". It's more expensive and you have more responsibilities, but it's also much more enjoyable.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: My brother-in-law is 34 and has never left his parents' house. He is socially awkward. Goes to work (in IT, shock!), comes home, and plays video game. His parents cook for him, wait on him hand and foot. It's weird and has always baffled me, but it's not discussed.

His dad, my father-in-law, will sometimes talk about how silly and arbitrary it is that people feel the need to move out of their parents house, and how back in the old days, families all stayed together on the farm.

Anyway, to that point, I think that was true for a long time.

After the Revolutionary War, veteran Jim Jones got a 2,000 acre land grant. Had 5 kids and each of them got 400 acres of it. Their kids each got 100 acres. Etc... etc... Then, some of the kids wanted more, so they headed west, got a 1,000 acre land grant, and it all started over again, but only lasted for half as many generations.

Now, we're mostly growing up on quarter acre lots, so we have to up and move every generation.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I actually just had a conversation about this yesterday! I think it comes down to the expectations from past generations carrying forward without any regard for how things have changed. The expectation has always been you graduate, you get a job, and then you start a family, but what has changed is the requirements to hit each of those milestones and the true cost of education. It used to be you could graduate high school, get a good paying job, and buy a house. Then you had to graduate college, but you were almost guaranteed a good job, and you could start a family soon after. Now, we're at the point where having a college degree is the minimum requirement for any career but you're paid less than the investment you put into college. So buying a house and starting a family is out of the question from the start, and getting a good job is hardly guaranteed. I think for the next generation, the expectation will be greatly diminished, but I know from my experience, it is still a pressure you face.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I moved away when I was 17, a thing I still talk about with pride today.

But then I look at my own 17 year old here in the house and I think "OMG don't leave me".

I don't think he thinks about leaving - his lifestyle is very different from what mine was at his age.  And I think the social stigma of living together with parents, at least in my part of the country, is starting to die down - we've got big houses, we're pretty liberal with our policies, most of us aren't home all that much anyway because we're working our asses off to pay mortgages and debt still...so, the kids being at the house, saving money, etc...I think they're getting fine with it (in the general sense).
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I've seen a lot of replies that are mostly right. One thing I haven't seen yet is that an integral part of American society is independence. It's why we can't have universal healthcare and/or welfare. "Why should I pay for someone else to have kids they can't afford?"

It's an argument I can't outright refute. No one likes it when people abuse the system and a lot, but not all (or even most I'd argue), Americans assume the worst. Sure there's people that take advantage of the system, but there are plenty of good people that need it.

With that said, part of being independent is getting your own place. This is important because it tells others that you're responsible enough to take of yourself and not rely on others.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Some people are leaving emotionally and physically abusive households. I moved out when I was 18 and work my ass off at 2 jobs so no one can talk to me like that or put their hands on me again, so I think it's probably a little different for everyone.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I think it's foolish. It's a way to" prove " your grown up. It's a selfish thing some parents do... ex. When you're 18 your outta here, so we can live our lives. Like you were a mistake
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Americans? Mate, everyone does it. It's not everything about Murica in this world.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: The main drive to leave: Independence. Societal norms are probably the actual biggest driver, but those are frequently wrong and a poor way to gauge one's life so I won't focus on them. Independence is worth striving for. If you're living with your parents and helping them pay the bills, keep up with things, or maybe even taking care of them, there's nothing at all wrong with that. However to make the most of yourself, your life, and those around you, you should be striving to be at minimum able to 100% support yourself financially. 

Main drive to stay: time with family. Again, the actual main reason is financial and general laziness, but again this isn't a good way to gauge one's life so I won't focus on it. The truth is if you get along and have a mutually beneficial relationship with your family (note the *mutually* beneficial part there), you should spend as much time as you can with them. After you leave, you'll have spent the vast majority of the time you'll have with them in your life ([check this out](_URL_0_) for more perspective). We have limited time on this Earth, and you should spend as much of it as possible with those you love. 

So if you look at the balance of those two very important things, central to one's happiness and fulfillment throughout one's life, you'll see that you need both in balance. If you frame everything in societal norms you'll leave as soon as possible and get a baby and buy a house no matter how much debt and misery it brings you. If you frame everything as what's best financially you'll miss out on many of the things that make life worth living (some things will never be the best financial outcome but are still very much worth doing if they bring you true joy). 

The main thing is that you forge your own path that benefits you and your family the most, and don't let external forces dictate your life for you.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I see a lot of answers about money and independence but there were some other factors.

For a long time women weren't allowed to own property or even make "large" purchases without their father or husbands permission and signature. For this reason daughters tended to live at home until they got married. Fathers were giving their daughters away, away from the house, away from the family, and under different head of house to care for. A similar instance happened with men, young men weren't to live alone, they were supposed to have a woman at home to care for him. That would be the mother until he got married. 

Getting a house separately wasn't always expected, but it was symbolic of moving on to being fullfilled adults and creating their own families. This gave the children stability and learning how to cope being on their own and have their own children, while the parents get a number of years not supporting additional people. For a long time it was expected that your parents would move in with you when they get old, until the rise of retirement homes and ad campaigns focused on making older folks feel guilty about "burdening" their children. 

And once women could start getting more variety in their jobs and education, less time spent at home meant a more equal share of household chores. And independence was built culturally over time as pay evened out and people waited longer to get married.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: If I missed someone else saying this, my bad, but another aspect of getting your own place ASAP for Americans is that until recently(last 10 years), rent for Americans was very affordable almost everywhere except NYC, LA and SF. 

So most of the US, you'll see plenty of people move out at age 18 because rent (especially if with roommates) was extraordinarily cheap, and can be had with 25-35% of a person's wage, even if that person was making minimum wage.

Now fast forward to today, where minimum wage is definitely not keeping up with the rent in major metropolitan areas, you're already seeing more people (and more acceptance) living with their parents longer.  Funny enough, when I first moved to the NYC area, I judged those people in their 20s still living with their folks, because of the same social expectation I had growing up in a cheap-rent area.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Canadian here.

For me, it was about having a place where I could more freely express myself and organize. I love my family but I needed the space and home was feeling cramped.

I live in a townhouse that's a little off the beaten path but close enough to the places I love to visit. It's also helped me to feel more confident than I have before and it enabled me to do things I've been wanting to do but couldn't at home. Like play Mario Kart with friends, or listen to music that wouldn't fly at home.

So for me moving out meant I didn't feel judged and I'm less inclined to judge myself. It's made me feel more comfortable with being me. It's a pretty cool thing to experience!

For others it suggests financial independence, confidence, and reliability.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Maybe it's got to do with the US being a land of immigrants, so the virtue of being independent, venturing out, and surviving on one's own is valued more. In our region, which is South East Asia, clannishness is the name of the game. The interesting thing is that the degree of emphasis on sticking with your family no matter how old you get actually varies too. The concept of clannishness, staying with your core family to expand it, is stronger in areas that have been historically agricultural. This is less emphasized in areas where fishing and hunting were the main points for sustenance. While it's easy to say it is how it is, it's also interesting to see how some of our "assumed as natural" behaviours have roots in how our society evolved historically speaking.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Personally speaking my wife and I both lived at home with my parents but it was cramped. 3 bedroom house with my parents, sister, my niece and my GF at the time. We lived there for 2 years and after saving up 15K bought a house. Now we're married and have a daughter of our own. In the states it's viewed that when you get out of school/engaged/married you SHOULD have your own place. 

My sister is being heavily judged because she's turning 25 and will be married living at home with mom and dad with her husband and 2 kids. Heck even I'm judging the shit out of her for putting her wedding cost before a house.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I can answer this. 

As soon as I landed a job out of college, I started looking for apartments. Sure, I could have lived with my parents. I could have used their hot tub and pool every single day. I could have lived like a king in their million dollar mansion, but I wanted out. I cannot live with my family and keep my sanity at the same time. I also wanted to start dating and get out there and start slammin' pussy. My choices were simple:

1. Stay at home. Save money. Lose my sanity. Lose any potential relationship.

2. Fork out some cash every month and have total independence.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: American parents forbid their children to have sex under their roof. Even their grown children. 

When I lived in Denmark, my Danish language and culture teacher told us that when her son was 16 she would have to check the shoes by the door to know how many plates to set out for breakfast. She and her husband would look at a pair of girls shoes and discuss things like "Pink heels, those are Mia, right? What happened to Carolina? Was Mia a coffee or tea drinker?"

This chill attitude about one's offspring's right to have a normal and healthy sex life is completely, absurdly foreign in the U.S.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I did it to escape from a shitty environment. 

I got grounded for having sex when I moved back in for a few months. My stepmother was bred in a lab and set loose to punish Man. She forbade everyone from eating in the living room becvause she was afraid of food ruining the leather furniture even though her dogs would piss it all and drag their dog balls all over them. 

My curfew was always changing based on mood. Once I when I was 16 my curfew was 6:45 PM on a Friday night and the next day it was 3:00 AM.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because most Americans are too worried about what their peers and society think, so they have something to prove. I stayed until I was 27, banking money and traveling the world. Now I have a nice house with a small mortgage, almost zero debt outside of the mortgage, and a ton more life experiences than people my age. All because I didn't give a damn what people thought. And thanks to the decent financial position I find myself in, I get to continue with my traveling, though admittedly not to the same extent as when I had no mortgage.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because the social/economic system doesn't want cooperation. It wants every individual/atomic family fending for themselves. It does not want an extending family sharing resources like roofs and vehicles and televisions. It does not want efficient, multi portion meals being cooked. It wants to maximize isolation and alienation.

Furthermore, due to a lack of ritual initiation, parents are encouraged to view their offspring as life-long children ("you'll always be my baby"). This holds true for the person themselves also, leading to an eternal pseudo-infantalization that feeds into a complex about "making it on my own".
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Another thing is that American Parents live in suburbs. New College Grads/young adults want to live closer to city centers where there's a more active social life for people under 40.

Suburbia is not a fun place to live if you want to have late nights out and meet people.

If I did live at home I'd be constantly waking my parents up coming home at night. I'd have a smaller room, not my own bathroom, and it would be very weird to bring any girls home or have people over in general.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I live in America but I come from a Indian family from Guyana. Basically, I grew up in a different culture. To me, you stay living with your family until you get married. That's just how it works for us. Except for things like going to college and moving away for work. Now my older brother though, he lives with us still, but he acts like a child. I don't think this is the intention of my culture's ways.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: American parents are prudes that don't acknowledge thier kids have become adults and capable of making thier own choices.  They have statements like "not under my roof" and other stupidities. One year away at uni and most "kids" would never want to go back to the people's republic of mom & dad.

Cost wise, well, freedom isn't free?

(Serious folks, have a bidirectional relationship with your kids not a commanding one)
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: For the same reason that people take vacations, even though it could set them back financially. Life is there to be lived. 

Living with parents = flush with cash, but suffering from an inactive sex life and lacking self esteem.


Moving out = cash poor but happy as a clam. A sense of Independence, can host dinner parties with friends... And yes, sex. 

Did I mention the sex?
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: From a parent's pov, we want you to go to college or whatever and start your own life, making your own choices. On the flipside, we also want you to stay because we can protect you.

Also, we've put in our effort, get out so we can have naked time. We're going on a vacation next week, can you come home to watch the dogs?
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: From what I've noticed, its not all about about social status as some comments are suggesting. Yes that is a piece of it. But mainly, in my opinion, its about job location. Most parents live in suburbs and most jobs are in cities. Its just not practical to live with parents when they live in the middle of nowhere.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because of a concept known as the "nuclear family."  I.e. everyone "starts a family," every single generation.

All our media is geared both subliminally and superliminally to driving families apart to keep this concept going.

It makes the plebeians easier to control when they only work together the minimal amount required to procreate.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I mean at 27 I'd still live with my mom and just stack cash, but what kind of life is it when your even 21 and still living at home, meet a nice girl, your both adults but can't decide who's moms house to go home to, lol
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because you must get out into the machine as soon as possible or you're a nobody with nothing!  Enjoying life is at the bottom of priorities.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: The biggest thing is perhaps the " my house  my rules " most parents decree ,
 that young adults find constricting.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Independence and Freedom was my driving factor.

My parents were not bad people, quite the opposite, but we did not agree on almost anything. We were very cash poor (we had a roof over our head, food to eat, and some nice things but no "spending money"). Both parents worked but tried to impose many restrictions that just did not work. Even though I would only see them for a few hours each day before going to sleep, it was constant arguing, tension, and disagreements. I needed more freedom than they wanted to allow yet I did more for them than most anyone Ive ever known did at my age. 

I had chores that took precedent over all other things once homework/studying was done from about age 7. From the age of 12 I found odd jobs to make a little money for the things I wanted and not only did chores but cooked dinner for the family (mother, father, 2 younger siblings) on a daily basis. Mother would come home after picking up siblings from daycare at about 5pm and dinner was usually done by then. From 16 I had a job as well as got very good grades in school and provided for all of my own needs (food, clothes, laundry, cooking, activities, vehicle, insurance, etc) while playing football for my school and still doing some chores. At 18 I was a full time student at university with a full time job, student loans, no financial support from my parents (they couldnt, not that they didnt want to) and only went home to sleep a few hours before being gone all day again. Even so, each time we were in the house together, there were arguments and disagreements and fights over how I should be doing things differently. Nothing was good enough. 

More and more days would pass at times before I went "home" again since I either slept in my car or stayed with a friend. By 20, there was just no point in commuting over an hour each way to "go home". A friend of mine and I found a 1 room apt (studio) near school for very cheap and since we were both gone most of the day with varying hours, it worked out very well. 

After that, there was just no reason to go back to living with my parents and siblings. I was on my own for so long it didn't make sense, although, financially it would have been the best thing I could do for myself, my sanity was more important.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: If the question is purely financial, why not get roommates? You still split the costs, but have less restrictions on your behavior. Many of the experiences I shared with roommates *are not* ones I would want to share with my parents.

Unless of course you're talking about getting a free ride entirely, which is wholly unreasonable. I don't think there are many culrures that look favorably on those who dont contribute. Correct me if I'm wrong, but even in cultures where families live together into adulthood there is an expectation that the adult children provide for the *parents.* Not the other way around.

There is much more to being an adult than meeting some arbitrary age requirement. Truly becoming an adult means being able to survive on your own. Being able to independently support yourself and/or your family shows the "tribe" that you aren't dead weight that they have to compensate for. When someone in their 20s, 30s, or even 40s and beyond still require the support of their parents for no other discernable reason aside from personal choice, it serves to indicate that person is psychologically and emotionally incapable of truly being an adult. A 30-something year old *child* is understandably something of an oddity in most people's eyes.

Furthermore, and this may just be my opinion, but if you can tolerate living with your parents well into adulthood, they have failed as parents. Their purpose is to raise you, not to be your best friend. That isn't to say you can't have a good relationship with your parents, but there needs to be a clear  line of separation between the two roles. And to reiterate what I said earlier, if your parents allow you to do the things that *I and many others* have done as adults in *their* home, they clearly have not raised you with proper boundaries.

Personally, I couldn't wait to leave home so that I could live my own life on my own terms. My mother wasn't some insanely strict authoritarian or anything, but it was her house so as a guest (which as the child, you ultimately are) I understood that I had no say in the rules of the home. 

**TL;DR** The Japanese refer to adults that live at home as "parasite singles." I think this aptly describes why such behavior is generally frowned  upon.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: At least for me, and I suspect for many other people, when you get a taste of the "living without your parents life" in college, you get used to it. You're either living by yourself or with roommates who are close to you in age (and who you hopefully get along with) for at least the last couple years of school.

During that time, you're responsible for most of the things that your parents were responsible for as you were growing up. Making meals, washing clothes, every household chore, etc. However, you're now unrestrained by any of your parents' rules. It doesn't matter if you walk around your house/apartment at any hour of the night, you don't have to worry about waking someone up **who might ask what you're doing**, you can drink alcohol, watch whatever you want on TV, etc.

Not to mention it makes dating 100 times less awkward, especially if you're just bringing someone home for the night.

After college, it's common for people to move back in with their parents, but most of the time, they want to get back out on their own as soon as it's feasible. Usually this ends up being when they get a job in their chosen field. If it's in a different area than where your parents live, it's either take the job and spend money on rent/mortgage or don't take it and have either no or low rent with your parents.

At a certain age, your friends and others you meet are going to start thinking different things about you living with your parents. Romantic partners are going to find it much more strange than people who you have known for years. 

It just becomes worth it to people to move out depending on how well they get along with their parents and how much they would have to spend to be on their own. If the only options are 80% of your income goes to rent or living with your parents, only the people whose parents forbid them to live in the house will be living on their own (or with an S/O, etc.) At 30% of your income, moving out on your own is far more tempting and plenty of people with great relationships with their parents will move out at that point.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: First generation immigrant (of Romania) College student who stayed home and commuted instead of moving into dorms here. 
For reference, I live in columbus and attend the Ohio State University (obligatory go Bucks). In my high school, about 200/530-ish students were admitted to OSU and I'd say maybe 10-15 are commuting from our district (a 15-35minute drive based on traffic). 
In America, you really do see  freedom in every social aspect of life. Those born American don't notice the subtleties, but I sure do. My school district was probably 65% upper middle class (not including me lol) so many went to live in dorms either accepting of the fact that they'd have the debt, or not having to worry about it because parents would pay for it (I personally think this hurts in the long run). 

I was perfectly comfortable with staying home even though it was definitely a daily hassle, but I get to say that I saved $11,000 every year I wasn't in dorms (osu requires 2 years) and that makes me pretty proud, more proud than saying "I'm independent of my parents". What's even more is that because of that choice I'll graduate debt free. Man that'll be a good feeling. So I guess it's really about the culture and family you grow up in that can shape these ideas. 

TL;DR immigrant college student decided to save money by community instead of being "independent". These ideas differ between culture and the place you grow up around.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I was 13 when I "ran away" (mom knew where I was and would stalk me frequently to make sure I was safe) and didn't move back in with her until she divorced my dad and was no longer homeless. I was 17 by then and she was so eager to have me safe with her that it wasn't a big deal for me to be home. No curfew, no rules. By that point I was very self sufficient. I didn't move out of her place until I was 25, minus one year. She didn't put pressure on me to become independent because I already was. We were just both poor so it was better for us to stick together. 

For most people I believe that's what it boils down to. America's culture of Independence and individuality. Living at home is mostly frowned on. From what I understand a lot of poor families (like my Mom and siblings) will stick together for some time if only to pool resources. So it seems to me that the need to be out of the house at 18 is a middle and upper middle class thing.

I could be wrong, though. As I have no resources or statics to back me up. Just my experience.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: As a 36 year old living at home I can give you my 2 cents.  I was in financial trouble, and had to move back in with the parents 6 years ago.  I've been digging myself out of debt since then, looking for a job that pays enough to do so.  One reason I want to get out is independence.  I'm at a point in my life where I need to be away from my retired father, who is home literally 24/7.  I have no privacy, my bathroom is right near my room yet I still need to be clothed when I go the 4 steps from my bathroom to my room.  I feel like they always need to know where I'm going, where I am etc.  My dad will get worried if I don't leave a note saying where I am.  I'm 36.  Yes, you read that right, 36.  I appreciate what they've done for me, but not having the things I was used to for 10 years of living alone or with a girlfriend/roommate, is wearing me down.  It would be completely worth the monthly payment to leave.  Anyway, that's what I am dealing with, hope this sheds some light on things :)
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because most parents are narrow-minded, hypocritical, selfish ass hats who realized they had a kid and now they cant let you die so they do it anyway. This creates a very tense and toxic environment, and it almost always stems from money or being taken "advantage" of. Really, the main reason is that american parents think at 18, youre supposed to be gone and doing your thing and the hard part of thier job is over. But it doesnt turn out that way for most kids and they are stuck at home for a couple more years with aggravated annoyed parents who just want you gone so they can do the exct same things they were with you there, alone.

The sadest part about this is when the child finally does leave the parents think "oh man think of all the things we can do now!" But what really ends up happening is the parents start to get very sour toward each other becuase there is no one else in the house to blame. Most divorces do happen after all children have left the house. 

TL;DR - american parents are not that great of people. Specifically baby boomers and early gen x.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I'm a 20 year old american, last year I had gone off to the military, then due to some personal circumstances was medically discharged and was sent back home to my parent's house. I left for good within one month of coming back because I was in love with someone they didn't approve of and was tired of their shit. I moved into my grandma's house and was married 2 months  later. Me and my husband scraped together the money and we moved into a nice little apartment together. I was working full-time and was a full-time student, and my husband was a over-the-road truck driver and was gone most of the time. I'm not gonna lie, it was the hardest thing i have ever done, but now he has gotten a much nicer new local driving job, I was able to go down to working a couple days out of the week and we have made a very nice and comfortable life for ourselves! I am even pregnant with our first baby! I love my husband more than anything else on earth and I would go through anything as long as it meant that get to be with him
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: As a female, I needed to establish my exclusive territory to begin mating and building my own pack. By age 16, I was sometimes running the household for my mother including parenting my younger siblings while she succumbed to depression in bed. Or defending them if she lost her temper.

I decided I was the alpha and that it was the priviledge of the alpha female to have sex so I quickly grew tired of the anti-sex propaganda of her church and the restrictive rules which prevented any expression of mature feminity or contact with the opppsite sex.

While it would still be a couple of years until I had sex and a decade before I had babies, all of my attention turned toward financial independence so I could leave my house as soon as possible. I did this by working several jobs and earning academic scholarships. I was driven by my desire for sex and children but I was strategic in that I felt that I would be still dependent on my parents if I chose my mate badly or didn't get a good enough financial start.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Something I haven't seen mentioned is the post-WWII manufacturing and housing boom.

America made a ton of factories during the war - but of course, once the war ended, these factories had nothing to do, so they turned to tremendous domestic manufacturing. Meanwhile, lots of soldiers were coming home, and if you don't have any other training, then the easiest job to transition to as a soldier is construction.

Now, it doesn't just benefit the housing market for a kid to buy a house and move out of their home - it benefits almost all the markets. Because then you have to buy furniture, appliances, linens, etc. to furnish the home - which is what all those former WWII factories were now being repurposed for.

So there was a tremendous media push to spread the idea that everyone had to have their own home, and that you were a failure if you weren't buying your own home and filling it with goods. It's one thing to cajole people into spending money on a luxury - it's another thing to get them to spend money on a perceived necessity.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Just going to say, I don't think this is exclusively an 'American thing', but more a part of Anglophone culture.

Moving out when you're a young adult is still, culturally, the 'done thing' in the UK, Ireland, Canada, Australia, NZ etc. 

It's about independence, and being 'king of your own castle'.

I only live a couple of miles from my Mum, but have lived away from home since aged 18 (apart from a 6 month stretch when I was 21. 

I was happier in my own space.

I does help that I'm in a part of the country where property prices are dirt cheap - moving out in your early 20s or before is still the norm.

My wife has family in South East England, and they don't have the same luxury; it's causing them quite a lot of upset and frustration tbh. Their parents want them to be able to move out, but even a small flat is about 200k, and rent is extortionate. 

I expect, culturally, we're going to see more of a North/South divide on the whole 'moving out' culture in the UK.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: 27 and still at home here. My dad is a verbally abusive jerk and I'm in somewhat of a Cinderella role, so I am desperate to leave but can't. I do believe in helping out and honoring parents, but in this case it's gone *way* too far. 

I know someone else my age desperate to leave home because his dad is *constantly* harassing him to fix things and do things for him, cussing and throwing baby-like tantrums if he doesn't do it and calling him terrible things, etc. (He has given up *loads* of time to his dad, to the point where he doesn't have any free time at home.) His mom talks to him like he is thirteen still, and that drives him nuts. Neither of them let him watch what he wants on TV, complaining to him as if he is a child and has no right to it, only they do.

I know most people don't have experiences as harsh, but it usually comes down to "I'm an adult but the parent still restricts me in some way."
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I've lived on my own four a combined total of 4 years in the 6 years since I graduated college.  I'm living with my folks now because I was diagnosed with a series of crippling illnesses and then succumbed, for a period, to major depression that debilitated me in every way you could imagine.  But I'm back on my feet, I'm working full time and making decent money.  I really want to venture back out because, while I love my family, I have a lot of anxiety just because they have something to say about everything I do (or don't do) and they've just become unbearably pushy about a lot of seemingly inconsequential things.  I feel I'd benefit from being out from under them but I'm afraid that if I try to buy a house and I take a turn for the worse, I may find myself unable to honor my financial obligations if I'm unable to work.  I'm really conflicted as to what to do next.......
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: As an American who moved out last year, I can tell you that even though it wasn't a financially smart decision, there is a lot of value coming from moving out:

I've had to teach myself how to manage going to college while working and paying my own bills.  I've learned a lot about money and time management in the past year, thanks to this.  I've also learned how to handle stress a little better too.

It also feels really good to know that you don't live under your parents rules anymore.  Like what another user stated already, moving out is a rite of passage here in America.  It's supposed to make you feel like you're actually being an adult now.

Some people have no choice but to move out; once they turn 18, their parents either tell them to leave, or their parents may make them pay rent if they stay.

I hope this helps you understand what kind of culture Americans are rooted in.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Short answer: It gives you independence and freedom. 

Longer answer: It forces the individual to mature enough to take care of themselves. It costs money, but if you're living on your own you have freedom to do as you please and the responsibility of keeping afloat. You also don't have to worry about parents/siblings getting into your business or judging your lifestyle. 

Personally: I moved out because I couldn't handle living with my parents another year. I found a good paying job I could work through college and paid for my housing with it. Best decision I ever made. It sucked, but I definitely matured in a lot of ways from it, and it also helped me get grounded in who I was. I actually just moved back in with my parents for a year to save money for a house for my soon to be fiance.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Americans value self reliance and independence. It says something about you when you can handle things living on your own.  It's not just paying bills. There are a lot of 20somethings that pay their parents rent. But it's all the little things you learn how to cope with when you're living on your own. Car breaks down in the middle of nowhere, what'd you do? Plumbing springs a leak in the middle of the night, what'd you do? State says you didn't file your taxes, what'd you do?  These are little things that when you live with your family you're more likely to have someone else help with rather than figure it out on your own.

I've lived on my own since I graduated college at 21 and never even had a roommate. 44 years old now. I'm proud of my independence.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: For what it's worth, I moved out young, got married young,  and had my son young. All of this was without financial backing from my parents. I moved out because I couldn't stand being treated like a kid and because I was anxious to transition into adulthood. 

Now... I'm young and have success in a well paying career which i am excited to go to.  I believe that my success is the result of growing up faster than the people around me.  There are plenty of guys my age who will never endure real financial hardship.  I learned a lot of lessons about life during the hard times and can now appreciate where I am and what I have. 

TLDR; The reasons may vary for moving out but there are definitely benefits to growing up and becoming independent.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I moved back in with my parents for about 9 or so months after I graduated from college, but while I was waiting to see if I'd get into pharmacy school.  I had a great full time job, I was just saving money.  When I unfortunately didn't get into pharmacy school, I immediately started looking for my own place.  I love my parents very much, they're absolutely wonderful, but I LIKE my dad a lot better now that I don't live with him all the time.  He had a hard time when I was 23 accepting that I wasn't "his baby girl" anymore, so when I could go out and spend time with the boyfriend without having him ask where I was, what I was doing, etc, it just made things much much nicer.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Follow-up type question: does the US having a lot of really low-wage jobs and a huge gap between the lowest earners and the highest earners have anything to do with it? My logic would be that if your parents are struggling to live their own life comfortably and are still (partially or fully) supporting you, and you're in a position to support yourself, you'd be quite selfish to stay living at home. Cf your parents being perfectly content and able to eat the food they want, see movies when they want, travel when they want etc and so you living with them isn't a huge burden.

I'm probably completely wrong because the individualism vs collectivism thing in the US vs Asian (etc) countries is probably right and that goes against this completely.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: All my family members warned me that I would regret moving out, miss home cooking, etc. Looking back after nearly a decade or living on my own, I can honestly say moving out was one of the best decisions of my life. So not only was everyone wrong, they were extremely wrong for this to be considered one of my best decisions. And I do not miss home cooking at all, still do not. Lots of independence, learned to be self reliant, more responsible in paying bills, better at managing money, and became more social. Stuff like this is worth more than the money saved. But I should note that I moved out when I had a steady job, paid off my student loans, and saved up an emergency fund.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: someone in their late twenties living at home: 

There is a social stigma of living at home. That is, you haven't succeeded well enough to be able to afford your own place.

Additionally, In the dating world if you ever want to "take them back to your place" its a no go. As a guy this makes dating a little bit harder, but usually the women I click with don't care about it. 

In my case, a modest apartment in a modest neighborhood is $1500 (Brooklyn) without roommates. Given the average cost of a home in the same area is well over 700k I am using the money I am saving to amass a large down payment on a home.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Im 36 and still live with my parents it sux. I have a job i drive a forklift in a warehouse i have been there for 8 years and onky make 11.05 an hour i smoke weed so i cant fet a better job i live with my parents because rent is to high everywhere from 800 month for a shack to 1150 a month for a 1 bedroom i have a phonr and a car and insurance i have to pay for too so i have very money leftover. My parents hate that i am there but they understand i want to go back to school but im scared i will fail and will go even deeper into debt.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I'm 24 and moved out recently after 2 years post college living at home.  It got really depressing living at home.  Made me just feel like my life was in a standstill and was going nowhere.  Now I moved an hour away and am so much happier.  I'm saving less money but it doesn't really matter because I will eventually get a raise basically covering the additional costs of having my own place.  Its the feeling of independence and the mindset that goes with it that makes it worth it.  Its really hard to live on your own in college for 4 years then go back to living at home.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: This is quite the opposite in most Asian countries. In my country Sri Lanka, living with your parents is something to be ashamed of. Rather taking care of your parents is considered as a virtue. So extended families are pretty common but in more urbanized areas, people move out of their parent's house after getting married. 

I suppose the biggest reason is the Buddhist culture in my country but this is true to other Asian countries like India as well. So being an Asian, I really don't see this thing with Americans about moving out even if it means getting yourself into a huge debt. It's so pointless.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I just graduated college and contemplated staying back home to find work around my city. Ultimately, I decided to get an apartment in my college town and found career related work there. 

Returning to home is looked at like "going back" on your life. All of my friends are either still in school or moved across the country to pursue their careers *straight* after college. In reality, I'm hoping I can move out of my college town within 6 months. Staying here kinda makes me feel like I'm being left behind.

There is a huge pressure to keep moving forward in life as an American.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because 18 year old kids want to be "cool" like everyone else and drink whenever they want.  I desperately wanted my own place when I was that young, but I made about $100/week and there was just no way I could afford it.  Thankfully, I was practical and had friends that made bad decisions so I could just go to their apartment.

Looking back - 15 years later - I ended up saving SO much money by moving out once when I was 23, rather than back and forth a few times like most of my friends that age.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: My parents expected me to go to college, sent me to college saying they'd work out the money with me, got me thousands in student loans then said they wouldn't help 2 years in (yea I was an ignorant 19 year old, thought they knew best).  Nice enough way to say, "You're on your own buddy."  Wasn't an option to live at home after that.  There was a pride aspect involved but lived on my own supporting myself because it was needed and my parents showed they had no intention of supporting me after I graduated high school.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I moved out when I was 19 and never looked back. I have great parents but the money I spend on rent and food is 100% worth the freedom that comes with it. I can invite anyone over any time, I can sleep peacefully or be as loud as I want around the clock, I don't have to deal with their obnoxious dogs and best of all I can choose my own ISP and service plan. Even when I'm struggling financially I don't regret moving out for a second.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Moving out got me out of a toxic situation with my mom. My sister had I are pretty confident that she has a personality disorder, but she feels her behavior is perfectly okay and everyone else is in the wrong, so she'll never get herself help. 

Our landlord stopped renting his place out so we moved in with my future in-laws. I appreciate them letting us stay, but honestly we're at the mercy of their shenanigans. It was a lot better when we were in our own place.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I've been trying to find a decent paying job since I was 24. A very bad experience in 2015 forced me to make major career changes. I don't know what to do with my life at 26 and despite having a Bachelor's degree, I cannot find a Full Time job that pays more than $13. I know everyone thinks I'm a joke and I really want to die of embarrassment. Not everyone can afford to move out or have a circumstance which will allow them to move.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: There are a lot of really long answers here, but what it boils down to is that its what american children are taught through marketing and advertising.  Our economy relies on breaking up family groups.  It keeps the economy moving.  People pay more for things like housing, childcare, transportation.  When the reality is that it makes much more sense to do exactly the opposite and build family groups so that financial and other responsibilities are shared.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: For me, it's about struggling. When I become too comfortable, I get complacent and lazy. I always aim to be uncomfortable.

I made a string of poor financial decisions so I'm back with my parents for now but my goal is to be out by New Years.

My purpose in life is struggling. Jihad. Mein Kampf. It is not a new concept. When you get comfortable you die, and right now I'm too comfortable.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because my parents live in bumfuck nowhere with a shitty ass economy and everyone I know that stayed in that town had children too young, got married too young, and have IQ's approximately room temperature along with meth addictions. 

Getting out of my parents house was a matter of survival. And I grew up in the lowest third of the lowest third of the income bracket in the United States.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because that's the way of the world. It's what every animal does and being able to fend for yourself gives both purpose and security. If you live with your parents what happens when they die? You wouldn't have developed the skills to be independent, it stifles development.

Also, who wants to meet a girl in a bar and suggest going back to their mummy's house?
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: My fiance and I moved to the city at the age of 17/18 from small towns 300 kilometres away (470 odd miles) to go to university.

It was basically the same as immigrants coming to a new land.

What a ride. We learnt to be independent. Now 30 years later we are still together and still enjoying the ride. 

LIFE IS FOR LIVING.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I'm from UK and Im living with parents still now (21), why? Spend as much time with them as possible and when I get older then move out. I pay rent so I'm paying my way but as I see it I'd want to live with my parents as much as I can because one day they won't be here :(
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Sometimes its about growing up. I couldn't be myself and learn who I was until I moved out. I moved out once I graduated college and it was a blessing. My parents and I get along so well now. I don't burden them with anything and we have a pleasant time every time we see each other.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Some of us don't want to put any additional burden on the people who brought us into this world. 18 years of providing for a kid is damn hard work. I am always amazed at the number of people in my generation who are perfectly comfortable putting their parents through another 10+ years of our mooching.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I moved out just for freedom even though it's more expensive... I can walk around I'm my underwear in my apartment completely free and nobody can tell me I cant... if i did that at home my mam would be all like "you've gained weight"
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I have an uncle who still lives with his parents at the age of 50 and doesnt have a job. Growing up my dad always reminded me of not being like him (the uncle). So I moved out when I went to colloge at 18.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Among the many other reasons listed, one is that some parents never give their children the freedom an adult needs. Some parents will keep curfews and enforce rules that a 22 year old might now want to live by anymore.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I left home at 15 years old and got my first place. 

The only reason I left is because I was the scapegoat on the isles of Narcissists. I didn't have a choice if I wanted to live.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Menopause.  Literally impossible to live with my mom right now.  Moving on Sunday.  Love her to death but if I leave my shoes not perfectly straight in the hallway she'll yell at me for an hour.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: One reason is that I want to own a dog. My parents do not want a dog in their house. I need my own place so that I can do what I want.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Skip all the stories of abuse and curfews, and just know it's about one thing: freedom. We move out because it gives us freedom to become an adult and do what we want.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Autonomy.  Being able to control your living situation is a big deal.  The financial burden is often worth it if it means a better love/personal life and less day to day stress.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: The irony here of course is the fact that by continuing to live with your parents into your own adulthood, you are setting your parents back financially in similar fashion.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Mostly independence, a feeling of finally being accountable for yourself at all times. All the whole lie asking yourself will I fail or succeed? What am I really made of?
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: 'Cause here in America we have this thing called freedom that every TRUE American adores above all!

*bald eagles soar overhead while I fire pistols in both hands*
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I moved out because there was no work at home. Even if it costs more to live on my own, I earn much more money by heading West
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: I realize this is only some of us, but r/raisedbynarcissists could shed some light on why many of us moved out much earlier than financially wise.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: In most countries (south Korea for example), kids live with their parents until they are married and can afford to buy a home of their own.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: American parents are more likely to be prohibitive of sexual liberties.  Got to get to the bone some man, it's important.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Independence is the spirit of America.  I can do it myself, I can succeed.  I can make my dreams reality.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: when I turned 18, my dad asked me... College or military? Because your sure as hell not staying here.
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: Because who the hell likes living with their parents??
question: Why does getting your own place and leaving your parent's home such a big goal for Americans even though it could set them back financially.[removed] answer: But, why would you want to stay there?
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Exactly as you imagine. There's exactly one place at a known moment for exposure and timing for a roller coasters that we need to snap a shot of. Everything is tuned to that split second. 

A bank camera is often shooting a pretty wide angle and video. So the precise moment, exposure, etc is unknown and the video is capturing the image over time, so storage is also a concern. From that video, the photo is pulled, and often enough it's accurate enough to make an ID, versus a clearest image for retail sale to tourists
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because banks aren't selling pictures to customers so their security systems are "good enough" .
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Theme park cameras have fast shutter speeds to capture the subject.

* It does not need replacing
* No excessive need for constant storage of the pictures
* They make money by printing the pictures and selling them


You're comparing a single camera with a fast shutter speed, which most basic DSLR cameras have, versus video equipment.

* Video equipment are expensive, and generally come with more than one camera
* Quality is commonly terrible because the cameras use a slow frame rate, for two reasons:
* Storage is expensive... all that useless day-to-day footage has to end up somewhere, and that's a hard drive, which costs money.
* Low quality cameras use way less storage... the cameras being low quality, cost cheaper too. Slow frame rates are technically fine enough.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: I don't know if you've notice because you're in the middle of the ride, but theme park cameras almost always use a flash.

It's this flash that properly lights the frame and give's a theme park photo "that look".

I don't think having a flash fire every few seconds at a bank would work very well.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Simplest reason, you are comparing video to photo.

Bank camera is recording at max 1080p, 1/60s with a high sensitivity (ISO) which means lots of noise. - Take a photo at 3.2mp, 1/60 , f3.5 ISO 800 with over head fluorescent lighting and your focus point about 2/3 into the visible frame and you will get a similar result to a freezeframe from a security camera.

The amusement ride camera is a photo camera that even a $100 film camera can get top notch results with., iso 200, 1/200/s or faster, f8 and maybe even a small flash. The focus point will be on the exact area where the riders's faces are. To do this with video you are talking about $10k/camera.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because the bank doesn't charge people $20 to keep their souvenir picture and profit from it enough to justify the costs of such an expensive camera.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: I'd be interested to know if the story is different in casinos.  They have a vested interest in real time surveillance, and the cash to do it well.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: The cameras on a roller coaster usually have an array of powerful flashes that go off at just the right moment. This allows for a very fast shutter speed which "freezes" the action. The security cameras in a bank are usually shooting video which needs a much slower shutter speed due to the use of natural light instead of flashes. The issue of the mass amount of data that needs to be recorded is also an issue which can lead to poor video quality due to compression.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: A couple people have mentioned it here, but I'll reiterate: 
It's LIGHT.
More light = faster shutter speed = less blurry pictures.

The same cameras taken from the thrill ride into a bank lobby would make blurry pictures if it weren't for the bank of flash equipment to go along with them.

The bank could probably do just as well without paying any more for cameras if they had giant lights facing in every direction in the bank.
Of course, no one would want to go into a bank where they were blinded by giant lights, so that's not very feasible.

There are other factors, but without the light, the tech just isn't there (yet) to get clear, high-quality photographs
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: But can't they just "enhance" the photo like in CSI to make it crystal clear?
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Storage Space. Lets say you want to put some pictures in a box. You can fit 10 pictures the size of your hand, or 5 pictures the size of your face. Unfortunately you want to store 5000 pictures. So you choose to have them the size of the fingernail on your pinky.

Unfortunately, now you have to view them with a magnifying glass, and you can't really tell what they are because it's not easy to draw pictures that small with a crayon.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: If banks were charging $24.99 every time someone needed a picture, they might get a better quality camera setup.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Corporate bank security manager here. There simply isn't enough return on investment to install such high quality cameras. The cost of the cameras themselves is monumental. Also, higher quality images are larger, requiring more storage space in the DVR/NVR. 

Robberies are certainly not the only thing CCTV is needed for. Burglary alarm response, facility monitoring during inclement weather, etc, are some of the uses of the CCTV system. One of the most important reasons is in the investigation of frauds. Frauds are often not discovered until months later, so the last 2 or even 3 months of video needs to be stored at all times. Retaining this much video is expensive enough (cost of hard drives) with low quality images; imagine the cost with high quality megapixel cameras? 

Also, insurance. There's not really a loss to the bank in a robbery, other than the loss of revenue while the branch is closed, and any reputational damage; neither of these is mitigated with the use of high quality cameras. And there is no consideration of the quality of your cameras when determining your insurance premiums.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Banks (and pretty much any business really) fund a security system that is only as good as it needs to be to to cover their insurance requirements.  

A theme park roller coaster snapshot is selling a product.  You can bet their security cameras are probably just as shitty or worse than a bank.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Banks use video cameras while theme parks use high quality photo cameras. Even a HD video camera shoots only ~2 megapixel frames. Nothing in comparison to an SLR with 10 megapixels and an extremely fast photo chip (specialized in taking one clear picture instead of a fast series of lower quality pics).
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: The factors are: Poor camera placement (shooting into sun/bright backlighting), poor calibration, cheap and/or old camera equipment, heavy video compression, and frequent reuse of storage media (rewriting over the same tape thousands of times to save money/labor).   Given how inexpensive versatile, high-quality video has become (GoPro) there's no excuse anymore.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: The answer to any corporate question is the same.

Money. 

The bank camera is an expense and doesn't generate profit. The Roller Coaster camera generates money for each and every snap. If the bank camera was able to generate profit, it would take a perfect picture every time.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: tl:dr Financial Incentive.

Beyond the technical answer of the actual photography it get's down to economic incentive. 

The banks doesn't really care/need to get a good picture, the camera is there to deter the least motivated criminals Expending resources on quality imaging isn't worth while as a actual deterrence tool. The incidents of criminals who don't use photo counter measures in their crimes is pretty as well. Banks also don't lose any money if their is robbery, they have insurance for that. They do face some pressure from their insurance companies to have some security measure, but the bar is pretty low. So as long as incident rate is low and of little real impact the quality of imaging will remain low. 

Now a theme park on the other hands is going to need to make money, and quite a bit of it. They are motivated to get great quality photo's automatically that they can invest a relativity fixed cost into, and charge a huge mark-up. Every time they sell a photo, they are making a killing on their investment.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: plus the cameras are likely higher resolution (probably 6-12MP), have a flash (they always have a flash).
banks have to roll on video, which are often 90% 640x480 or 320x240 resolution. Sometimes for newer ones they're 720p (1.2MP), or if it's a very expensive high end system may be 2MP or 4MP, but rarely more.
  
So they're essentially taking a still shot of a low quality video, which has all the issues of rolling shutter for interlaced video. Also most of these run at 5-10 FPS and they try to get a photo of the subject in the best possible position - which is not optimal. The robbers don't often stop, look up, and smile for the camera as they do in a theme park.
  
Lastly they're really wide angle so percentage of image sensor is really small. You have to digitally zoom the already-low-quality image and it gets pixellated. Versus a theme park camera which is placed and has a zoom lens so that it's 100% laid out perfectly to capture the optimal photo.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: The images are low resolution because storage is a bitch. A high resolution camera (still or video) will produce files that are exceptionally larger. Backup drive space disappears incredibly fast when you're recording, for example, all the interior rooms and exterior facades of a bank. We could be talking about hundreds of cameras all sending high def images or video to some kind of backup drive that has a *very* finite amount of storage.

Naturally, as time and technology progresses we see improvements in the cost per bit to store large-scale data. But a business won't go out and swap all the camera and storage equipment each time there's an upgrade. The costs are prohibitive and a system must produce tangible or intangible ROI. 

By contrast, the *single* camera at the end of the flume is hooked to a smaller network and the image is most likely deleted after purchase or by the end of the day. It costs much less to set up and immediately produces income, it's not a cost of doing business.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: This reminds me of airplanes and black boxes. Why do black boxes only record the last two hours of a flight when I can fit a couple of terabytes of storage in my pocket for a hundred bucks?

The banks installed their cameras 10 years ago, probably more. Cameras and storage were not so great then. They are not interested in a constant upgrade cycle for financial reasons mentioned by others here.....plus I suspect there's a a lot of inertia going on.....like the black boxes.

And of course, the airlines are complying with authorities and the banks with insurance companies.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: People on a roller coaster, say, are always the same distance from the camera. It's basically the same shot every time, where the bank camera is trying to get as much of the bank as possible.

Also, nobody would by poor quality pictures of themselves on the roller coaster, and the bank only rarely needs to get a picture from their camera, and nobody's paying them for it.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: ["In 2006, the average bank robbery netted about $4,330"](_URL_0_)

Why would a bank spend tens of thousands of dollars on camera equipment to get a good photo of a thief when they steal less than what the cameras would cost and all the money is covered by insurance anyway?  Also it's a very rare crime so there's even less of a reason.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: They know the speed of the roller coaster at the focus point and set the shutter speed to match.  They know the area they want in focus, and set the shutter aperture off that.   Then they make sure lighting is perfect.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Also, budget. If a bank or other place that uses security cameras went out and bought big DSLR recorders, then they'd have great clarity, tone and exposure. But CCTV cameras get the job done and are infinitely less expensive.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Part of this is because most businesses put in shitty, low res camera systems, don't train people how to use them, and hope they never do. 

Source: I'm in law enforcement technology / digital evidence
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because roller coaster cameras are using still cameras with a high speed flash, while banks are using video cameras that are continuously filming.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Ok, Camera guy here so Ill piggy back off of /u/Mrknowitall666 and /u/Shadowmant 

Theme parks use [varifocal cameras](_URL_3_) this basically stands for an adjustable lens that you have to physically adjust to get the proper view out of. lenses that are focused on the exact spot a roller coaster is supposed to be.

Combine this with a high shutter-speed the roller coaster will be in focus and in frame. normally Amusement parks will have techs go through every camera and adjust the focus of the lens to insure quality.

Bank cameras are different to an extent.

Drive through banks will have [LPR Cameras](_URL_3_) these normally are focused on the lanes and/or the drive ways of the bank.
Once again these are varifocal cameras that have to be focused on one area and will need to be adjusted every so often.

Inside the bank you will have varifocal cameras focusing on the teller areas. This insures that they get the clearest picture possible but still only focus on a certain areas.

Now if its a good bank they will have a [PTZ Camera](_URL_3_) in the lobby aswell as watching the ATM, depending on how much the bank wants to spend the PTZ camera can be autonomous and pick out when and where a person/vehicle is moving and focus on it.

As for an ATM they have a low res fixed camera that only focuses on the person at the atm. Now by low res I dont mean a Game boy Camera, probably around 700tvls or so.

Now for a bank to just purchase the equipment we are talking about atleast 10k worth of equipment not including labor.
the security cameras also have to be insured, aswell as a few other industry only items the bank has to consider.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Highest upvoted comment is simply wrong. This is a matter of lighting. Theme park cameras use flash. Banks are indoors and much darker than outdoors - but humans don't realize this because our eyes adjust. Ask any professional photographer and it's a night and day difference of indoor with lights on vs outdoor natural lighting. Just take a picture yourself with a camera and check the ISO the camera auto-selects. Again, humans can't tell the difference but indoor lighting is much harder to take a good picture than outdoors because of brightness.

Don't believe me? Take a good camera, and take photos of a basketball game indoors. 90% of your pictures will be bad because your camera has to turn down the shutter speed drastically just to even capture enough light. Take that same camera, take any picture outdoors. It'll be crystal sharp even if someone's running. Now add flash and it's even 10x easier to get a sharp picture. This is why if professionally people use $10K+ cameras+lens to take photos of basketball games, but a much cheaper camera can take the same quality shots outdoors.

Also, bank cameras are 'just good enough' for their value and intended use. Theme park cameras are as well, and have a huge advantage in that they use flash. It's about 20x-50x brighter flash vs indoors.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Theme parks are using flash photography which allows for a fast shutter speed (less motion blur). Without getting too technical, the flash of light itself also helps the camera only see a *very* short duration of time. Because they are still photos (.JPEG or similar), they are only a few megabytes each and are likely deleted after a day or two. This isn't a tremendous amount of data for a theme park.


Bank cameras are capturing video 24/7. Take an hour of video with your cell phone and you'll have yourself a HUGE file. A few easy ways to reduce file size is lower the frame rate, lower the resolution, and shoot black  &   white instead of color. This makes capturing and archiving massive amount of footage much more sustainable. Security footage could be shot at higher quality but you'd need massive means of file storage. 


TLDR: Still photography can utilize flash to achieve higher shutter speeds. And HQ video captured 24/7 is too much data to store long term.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: It really comes down to insurance requirements. Being robbed isn't a huge concern for banks because they have to have insurance. They also will only keep the amount of cash that they need to run their branch so even if they get robbed it won't be a ton of cash. When a bank is robbed all the bank needs to do is call up the insurance company say how much got taken, answer some questions and they'll have it all back once all the paper work is filled out. They'll help the authorities catch the criminals as much as they can, but a banks main concern is getting the branch back in business and the employee's back to work. That's why you don't see high end security systems in banks. You just see what they need to install to meet the insurance requirements to be insured.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Ex private investigator here...

When you're taking a single picture, the storage capacity is essentially limitless due to the fact that if you're not selling photos, then you can clear the files and it doesn't matter at all. When you're installing camera equipment that is meant to store a day's worth of video, the capacity is really, really small - mainly due to the fact that you're trying to store so much information on such a small hard drive. Storage costs a lot of money - and banks aren't willing to spend that much on HD video, mainly due to the fact that statistically speaking they will never have any need for such video. They're playing a numbers game.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: It has to do with the shutter speed of the camera. The faster the shutter speed, the crisper a moving subject will be. The trade off is that you need more light on the subject the more shutter speed you want. At theme parks, pictures are being taken during the day, and in addition most coasters have a flash to accompany the photo. In banks there is far less light (at least powerful sun light) so the shutter has to be slower, which then creates less crisp moving images. The darker banks also affect what ISO a camera can use which has a lot to do with clarity as well.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Theme park cameras are timed, and only have to store the pictures for a day or two. This means they can be higher quality. Bank cameras need to record constantly, and store the video for a long time. This presents an issue as the data builds up rather rapidly. To combat this, they record at a slower frame rate, and lower resolution. In theory you could record 60fps and 1080p but it would be much more expensive. Some security systems keep a day or two's worth of high res videos, and delete them soon after, but this is prone to errors and costly.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Why security video is generally so bad basically comes down to storage space.
When you have dozens of these cameras going all at once, the cost of storing all that data adds up fast. The first two things that get sacrificed in the name of space are resolution and framerate.

The cameras at six flags on the other hand are designed to take stills. They only need to grab those couple of frames on each pass and that's it. So high (in comparison) resolution and high shutter speed for a nice sharp picture.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: My uncle works in a bank.  He said that there are really good cameras by the entrance that takes great shots of peoples faces as they walk through the doors.  I'm guessing they use the grainy CCTV video for the news because it shows the action of being robbed.  But he told me the entrance cameras show every pore of someone's face.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: A lot of people are over thinking this. Of course banks could afford HD video cameras and the required storage but why would they? There is no incentive since all losses from robbery are covered by insurance. It would be quite a large outlay for no gain really. There is other technology and procedures that take priority to prevent a robbery.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: To all the people saying storage is expensive....no.  

Store I work in has 4 cameras recording 24/7 with very good quality.  We used less than $700 worth of hard drives in the machine that stores all the video, and we have the ability to save up to two months worth of constant video.  

Banks are just cheap.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because of space limitations.  The theme park takes a single unstored picture and prints it out.  

The bank has to take "infinite" images and store them.   You can either put one amazing photo with amaaaazzinnggg resolution on a tiny flash card, for example, or a few minutes worth of video.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: It's ELI5's like this where I wish the procedure wad to walk OP fighting it out on their own. This requires little special knowledge and can be determined with logic and reasoning.  knowledge is great but the real gift is learning how to learn.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Your premise is incorrect.  Modern banks have rather nice cameras that can capture clear images of bank robberies. This is a huge asset to police, especially now at the quick speed these pictures can be transmitted to patrol officers.

Example: _URL_4_
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Flash.
The camera flash freezes motion. it is common for a flash to sync up to a shutter speed of 1/250th of a second.  If the theme park didn't use the flash, the image would still be blurred.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: CCTV Installer here. Most banks have old crap analog cameras. These days, I install mostly 2MP and above digital IP cameras, which take great images and video.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: because the banks are cheaping out on cameras and storage.  Cameras these days are GOOD, if you actually decide to buy a good camera.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because, why waste money on nice camaras when you only need to see if they were black or not?
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because banks don't make any money on those,  and they are insured when/if they are successfully robbed
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: god damn. that is a really good question. why cant i think of shit like this
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: I'f the crooks were paying $50 for their 8x10, the quality would be spectacular.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because the bank is recording video. HD Video takes up too much storage.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: that's because cameras might be used against bankers who rob from people
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because it's precisely timed where bank cameras are not.
question: How come theme parks can snap clear pictures and get good quality footage of people going up to 70mph but bank cameras can't get a clear shot of a robber standing still? answer: Because people pay for those roller coaster photos.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Let's say you want to make widgets, but you need money. You could ask out investors, but if every inventor had to talk to every investor it would be time consuming. So investors give their money to fund managers and the fund managers distribute the money to inventors (taking a cut off the profits from investments or charging or fees). 

Everything else is just increasingly more complicated ways of trading risk for money. 

It's not much different than a grocery store. If every person that needed did had to contact and trade with every farmer it'd be insane. The grocer doesn't make anything, but they take a cut for facilitating a trade (essentially).
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: on a very simple level - they move around money. and they move this money between things which are all the time changing in value.

so if $100 is moved over into the form of a share in a company, the next day (or the next minute..) that money could now be worth something else.

given the size of wall st, we are talking about the movement of hundreds of millions of dollars. and when an investment goes badly and $100 million becomes $50 million, or vice versa, and when this happens all the time with BILLIONS of dollars - it effects the economy.

So what purpose does it serve society..? Not too much really... but what effect does it have? HUGE

Edit: i have received some flack for my last line saying Wall St does not do much to serve society. What I meant by this is to be neutral - Wall St certainly has its benefits, but was also the cause of the global financial crisis in 2008. But I think its effects are more interesting to discuss then what purpose it serves society.

Edit 2: I am receiving more and more aggressive messages about how wrong my post is, followed by long complicated answers which simply expand on exactly what I said - Wall St moves money around. And by moving it around, it causes ripple effects across the economy. I apologise for not being able to explain the ins and outs of Wall st in less than 100 words - shout out to SteelGun for his great response below

Edit 3 (and final edit): HOLY CRAP REDDIT YOU'RE SO MEAN. While I am getting abused to death I still have not had ANYONE disagree with my fundamental explanation of what the people on Wall St actually do. I have however mislead people into believing that Wall St serves no purpose to society - I accept that this was written extremely poorly, and not meant to come out that way. Never have I even thought that Wall St is just a thing that's there that serves no purpose.. and you shouldn't either. I wanted to edit the post when it was on like 20 likes but only bad redditors remove things they said that people didn't agree with, so I'll leave it but yes that last line was fucking dumb. HOWEVER I have also received messages from many people backing me up and saying my answer was pretty well written for such a massive question in ELI5 terms. If you are new to this thread please read many of the long well written posts below for *other* good answers too. peace

fucking lol i got gilded
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: It's difficult for some people who work for a company that creates a tangible product to understand, but these financial institutes are almost always vital to a business' health at one time or another.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: When movies refer to "Wall Street" professions, they often refer to investment banking (like Patrick Bateman in American Psycho). In real life, Investment banks often provide transaction services and advice to companies. Their "clients" are companies that are looking to either buy other companies, sell their company to another company, or merge their company with another one in order to increase enterprise value (this can be referred to as M & A Advisory or just simply an investment bank). 

Other lesser known "Wall Street" jobs are in Private Equity. A private equity firm essentially raises capital from outside investors with a lot of money (high net worth individuals, family offices, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies) and combines that money into a "fund". Private equity firms leverage those funds to own stakes in other companies, infrastructure, and more in hopes of providing returns to those investors. 

Others, Hedge Funds, are similar to private equity firms in that they can raise and leverage massive amounts of outside capital, but hedge funds are able to invest in conventional securities like stocks, bonds, etc as well as non-conventional ones that are difficult for the "average joe" to understand like distressed real estate debt. Essentially, these employees are researching, analyzing, and executing  and combining many strategies including buying, selling, shorting to "hedge" investments and seek the highest returns for themselves and their investors. 

Hope this helps.

Source: work in finance

Edit: Stakes.. not steaks - was probably hungry when I wrote this comment
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: #**First lets define wall street**


If by "wall street", you mean the general financial institutions and markets around the world including in the United States, then this is a *very* broad question.

With that being said, I will give it my best shot.
-

----------------------

We have three basic divisions of the financial industry. This theory on the financial industry I learned when getting both of my undergrads is not all encompassing, and obviously one could come up with other divisions that would equally describe the market. Neither description would be wrong and this will suffice.



#**Financial institutions**

These are (generally) the regulatory agencies that intervene in the market for various purposes. Examples include the SEC, the Federal reserve and so on. These (mostly) government institutions help regulate the market, provide various services (like issuing money), and pursue legal action against criminals. 

*example*

The federal reserve may raise interest rates to stop or curtail inflation or it may increase reserve requirements for banks for a variety of reasons. 

----------

#**Financial markets**


These are the physical and virtual (ie: internet) meeting places where the various parties meet up to conduct business. In the same way you and I have a market to pick up our groceries or buy a car, markets in the financial industry are set up to reduce the cost of doing business and to allow for interested parties to conduct said business. 


*Example*

A farmer wants to sell an options contract on the bushels of wheat he is growing for harvest. In order to meet with potential buyers, this farmer sells options contracts for a specified price on the Options market. He may do this at the Chicago Mercantile exchange, which was famous for exactly this kind of transaction. Without the Chicago Mercantile exchange it would be nearly impossible for prospective sellers and buyers of the options contracts to meet and conduct business. 


Another example may include a company looking to raise revenue for planned business expansion by listing shares in the company on a market (through a broker, which we will discuss below). Without being able to have buyers and sellers meet, this task is made nearly impossible, and the benefits to this transaction would not occur, namely the business would be much less likely to expand and at the same amount, and investors would have less avenues for wealth creation. 



------------


#**Financial Brokers**


This is a lot easier to explain. The brokers are the various clearing house associations and stock market intermediaries that facilitate these market transactions. To use the brief example I gave above about going to the store to buy groceries, if grocery stores *as a whole* are the market, then the Shop and Save company would be a broker in this analogy.





-------------------



Now that we have a Very^very^very basic understanding of the background information needed to understand the financial industry, lets start answering your questions. Keep in mind, I answer these as someone with two 4 year degrees, one in Business, and the other in Economics, both with a focus on finance.



 >  Do create anything?


Simply, yes.

Types of services offered include, but are not limited to the following:

* Trading risk from risk averse to risk takers, like in our options contract example above
* Allowing groups of people, like corporations, to raise funds, including but not limited to debt and equity issuance
* Investment banks provide a wide array of services like business appraisal, Mergers and Acquisitions, and identifying market trends.
* engineering complex financial instruments (usually a type of derivative) to meet some kind of goal EG: collateralized debt obligations

Etc


From an economic standpoint, one might distill it down to simply this saying, That the financial industry allows "Net-Savers" (used broadly) to lend funds to "Net-spenders" for a return, who then generally use the funds for some end. These transaction *generally* only occur when both parties benefit more than they lose out, and everyone is left better off. 


 >  Are they just playing with everybody's money


No serious person who has studied the financial industry believes this. There are *real* socially beneficial services provided by this industry. Furthermore competition in finance is intense, and those companies and individuals that are not serious about providing value for stakeholders are ushered out or lose money quite fast.

 >  I really have no idea

Fear not, most people have no clue. In a similar fashion to medicine, or physics, Finance is a highly specialized field with professionals that often need bachelors degree or higher to break into entry level positions. There is industry specific jargon, lots of math (which the general population has issues with), and abstract concepts that take awhile to truly understand on the second level.

It took me about a year of undergrad finance courses to really *truly* understand what the heck is going on in finance. 


I hope that helps, and if you have any questions, feel free to ask, and if I have the knowledge, I will answer to the best of my abilities.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: There's a big variety of roles in Finance. At a high level, financial institutions essentially facilitate the growth of literally every other industry there is by finding someone with money to invest in someone with a plan/project. Think small business going to a bank for a loan, but it gets scaled up and more complex with huge companies.

In more detail, you have the "sell-side" and the "buy-side." The sell-side is what you think of as Investment Banks. These are the companies like Morgan Stanley, Citi, JP Morgan, Goldman, etc. that work with institutional clients. This mainly happens through advisory and trading functions:
- Advisory is what is "Investment Banking," think analysts grinding away for 100 hours a week. Let's say a client retail company comes to a bank and wants to raise money/acquire a company/get sold. Let's say raise money for now, and they want to do that by selling equity (i.e. ownership stakes). First, the industry coverage group for retail learns everything about the company, and uses their expertise in this industry to put a value on the company. Once they do a lot of that, they hand it off to a market facing product group called Equity Capital Markets (the product meaning equity). This group sees what the market will accept and finishes pricing and marketing these new shares in the company. Let's say selling these shares raises $100 million. The advisory group earns a fee for doing this, as a percentage of the amount raised.

- Sales and Trading. This is what you'd see in Wolf of Wall Street. Trading teams are called "market makers." Someone wants to buy a stock/bond, someone wants to sell, they're in the middle. They buy the security from the seller and sell it to the buyer and a SLIGHTLY higher price and make a spread. They are out of the door at 5 PM and don't work weekends. Clients are large asset management funds (see below) and hedge funds and shit.

The buy-side is actual investing. You have things like:
- Mutual funds: Pretty standard funds of stocks and bonds and shit
- Large asset managers: Think Blackrock. Has many mutual funds and other strategies
- Alternatives: Real estate investors, private equity investors (buy a whole company, grow it for a few years, sell it for profit), and hedge funds (similar to Sales and Trading but they're the ones actually buying and selling stocks/bonds)
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Most people haven't touched upon that they help companies raise money by either issuing stock or bonds. 

Basically a company sometimes needs a lot of money at once to do a project or release out a new product, but they don't have that money. So in order to get that money they go to Wall Street and say "hey I need a billion dollars to launch my new idea". 

For bonds, Wall Street banks get together and say okay we have found 5 banks interested in giving you that money as long as you pay us back in 20 years and 5 percent interest. They give the company the money and the company pays them back over time.

For stock it's similar but they are basically helping a company issue shares of stock for the public to invest in the company for a fix price in which the company gets the money while the investing public get potential future return from the stock in either dividends or stock appreciation. The incentive for banks to help the company issue the stock is that they get to be some of the first people who buy it.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Hi, 15 years in an investment bank here, and I'm slightly disappointed with the top answers I'm reading, so here is my version. 

"Wall Street" is a pretty broad term and most of the big firms do a lot of things, however I'll broadly split them up as follows:

**1) Corporate Banking / Advisory**

**What is it?** Providing advice, lending, and all kinds of services to big companies, ranging from multi-billion dollar merger/acquisition to day-to-day payment processing

**Who benefits?** This one is easy... the big companies benefit, or they wouldn't pay the fees. Every big multinational operating in different countries relies on the services the big banks provide.

**Why do they get paid so much?** At the top end, the biggest transactions (e.g. the $85 billion merger between AT & T / Time Warner last year) are worth so much that the advisor's fee is like an afterthought. If you believe some good advice will get even 0.5% difference on the price paid, that's still almost half a billion dollars. Which makes a $50 million fee look like great value.

**2) Sales  &  trading / intermediary services**

**What is it?** This is probably the most complex to explain. Broadly it is buying and selling shares and other securities on behalf of other people, either private individuals or professional investors. That includes offering advice to and making purcheses on behalf of buyers (Broking), as well as advising issuers, creating derivatives, and marketing financial products on behalf of sellers (Sales). Finally there are pure intermediary services where a firm acts as "market maker" in other words offers to act as buyer or seller for anyone in the market to speed up the operation and avoid having to individually pair up every buyer/seller who wants to exchange their shares/securities. The market maker gets paid from the small difference ("spread") between buy price and the sell price. 

**Who benefits?** As before, many services have a direct fee that the client pays - so it is the client who benefits. In many cases the client is another bank or a professional investor.  Ultimately, any company that relies on the markets for funding, or any individual who has investments or pensions, will benefit from markets operating efficiently.

**Why do they get paid so much?** In a word, volume. Not many companies can provide these complex services, and the amount of money that goes through big banks' trading floors is immense, so even small percentages or spreads add up quickly. It's not just traders on phones buying and selling, there are large numbers of mathematicians, lawyers, IT people, researchers and so on making sure the services are efficient, legal, and the advice is the best available. 

**3) Professional Investors**

**What is it?** Operating funds and making investments. This is often what people think about when the term "casino banking" comes up. Fund managers operate funds with other peoples money, such as pension and investment funds. Proprietary traders use a bank's own money, but they often have to try and manage the bank's own risk to ensure it has a stable overall risk profile and is less likely to fail if there is a big shock or crash. Hedge funds use a combination of their own money and other (generally large) investors to borrow money and invest it, with higher risk but higher chances for rewards too.

**Who benefits?** The investors, clearly, if the fund is successful. Everyone's savings and investments are likely managed by one of these fund managers and we all rely on them doing a good job for our own prosperity and retirement prospects. 

**Why do they get paid so much?** They manage large amounts of money and when they get it right, they make huge sums for their investors. The rewards follow the performance of the fund and it's a cut-throat world if you fail. 

Overall, the answer to the question of "who benefits" comes down to "money makes the world go round". There are people with money to invest (savers, pension funds, big companies with cash reserves) and many people who want access to that money (startups, governments, major corporations wanting to invest, individual borrowers). Banks help put two and two together, in all the hugely complicated ways that a modern economy operates. Everyone who needs money, who wants to borrow or invest or even just store and move money benefits from the banks doing their job properly, in all the different ways I outlined above.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: You're going to get a lot of bias on this one, my own included.

Like most jobs, there is a purpose and it can be mishandled and cause significant harm.  The purpose at a high level is to create "liquidity".  Matching good ideas/companies with money so that they can grow faster. 

May work best with an example.  Imagine an extreme with no banks.  I own a business that makes the best tacos in the world.  But opening a taco stand costs a lot of money.  I could work hard at other jobs, or sell tacos out of my house for a while to make the money to open my shop, but that takes a long time.  Investors/loans allow me to skip the step if I can convince people my tacos are indeed the best.  At a larger scale, a proven restaurant can grow much faster if they don't have to rely solely on the profits of the first restaurant to build new ones.  

On the other side of the bias, current wall street instruments include "derivatives" which basically allow someone to make more complex investments with more specific "win" conditions.  It is arguable whether these instruments actually provide additional liquidity.  Their complexity means it is easy to have unintended consequences that screw everyone over - hence the bad rap.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Former finance bro here.

The top answer is complete nonsense.

Asking what is Wall St and what does it do is similar to asking what is a scientist and what does a scientist do?

There are many types of scientists, and likewise, there are many posititions throughout "Wall St" that serve a variety of value added functions.

One of the most important aspects of capitalism, at least in my country, the United States, is our free enterprise system that has taken shape in the form of the various stock exchanges - NYSE (New York Stock Exchange), NASDAQ, etc. 

Essentially when you see the ticker on CNBC for each respective company and a price next to it, that is the share value for a stock that means nothing except the price it costs you to buy one share of stock. A share is an ownership stake in the company being discussed.

For example AAPL, is Apple which trades on the NASDAQ stock exchange and is currently valued at $132 a share. When people talk about the "market cap" or market capitalization, that's the value of all the outstanding shares at $132 times the total number of shares issued. This gives you the idea of the complete valuation of a company. This number is based on all cash flows and takes into consideration assets and liabilities to give you an accessible idea on the value for even the most unsophisticated investors, or workers or anyone to participate in our capitalist system.

It's seriously accessible to anyone. You can buy stock for $8 a trade on some websites nowadays. 

So one of the most important functions of "Wall St" is to help companies in the process of issuing stock. When Steve Jobs and friends built Apple, they created a company and sold computers. Their individual wealth was tied into the cash flows from their ability to sell computers at a profit.

In order to grow into the massive company they are today that has created technology that most of us use daily, they issued stock, which sold off shares of their company in exchange for capital.

This capital is used to rapidly grow companies, and is one of the most beautiful aspects of our capitalist system. That is why any entrepreneur with a dream, creates a business, employs people, does their best to sell the best product---with the dream of eventually seeing their company they created out of their blood, sweat, and tears up on one of those stock tickers on the various exchanges.

These Wall Street firms help companies grow and raise capital. That is but one function. I myself used to be a commodities trader, I worked in oil in hedging fuel prices for a major air line. We ensured stability in fuel prices which represented almost 35% of the cost structure of the company I worked for.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Short basic explanation of how stocks work, which is a lot of what goes on at Wall Street:  

Imagine you have a company you own. You think your company could earn more money if you had some more cash, but you also don't want to go to the bank for a loan.  

Instead you cut up ownership of the company into pieces (shares) and you sell them to people interested. People will want to own a piece of your company because you say that every now and then, you will give them some a piece of the profits you earn (dividends). So theoretically, if they buy a share from you now when it is cheap, then later when you're making lots of money, they will get their money back over time with the dividends.  

If your shares can be bought by anyone, then they are publicly traded. 
If someone is buying stocks, they probably buy lots of different ones so that if one company fails, other companies will keep going and they won't lose too much. Keeping track of all this can be a full time job, so people hire other people (brokers, fund managers, etc.) to deal with this for them.   

Wall Street is where many of these brokers and fund managers work. Because they tend to be in contact with each other (this was more common in the past but works a little differently with the internet and high-frequency computer trading) this can cause ripples in the economy for investors.  

For example if one broker lets it slip to many others that, say, Samsung might be releasing a new device that will make them a lot of money (resulting in high profits, and thus high dividends) many brokers will encourage their clients to buy Samsung shares so that the brokers can get some of that money. Then if it turns out that Samsung aren't releasing anything new and actually accidentally made a lot of phones explode, people don't want that stock any more and will want to sell it to someone else quickly so they can use their money to buy something more profitable.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: I feel that these comments are leaving something out.  Are there scumbags and parasites on wall street? Of course.  But wall street also provides legitimate services.  Companies need capital (money) to grow.  Wall street provides that money.  The main ways companies raise money are by going public (stock) or selling bonds (debt).  Venture capital can only get you so far.  Amazon, Apple, Home Depot, Google are all publicly traded companies and wouldn't be as big as they are or might not even exist, if they didn't go public.  An investment bank helps you go public or sell bonds.  These companies need money, but have no idea how to go public (or sell bonds).  They go to an investment bank and the investment bank makes it happen.

Wall street isn't all hookers and blow like wolf of wall street.  There are a lot of really smart guys (nerds) working long hours in front of  computers.  These guys make good money but nothing to brag about, especially in NYC.  Most of these guys can't even afford to live in the city and are laid off every time there is a downturn.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: So imagine there's a cake. And when someone slices off a piece of that cake, Wall street takes that piece of cake and hands it to someone else. In that process, a small crumb falls off the piece and Wall Street people take that for themselves. 

Soon enough they will have their own cake made up of parts of other people's cake. Then they can sell their own cake to others. They can also slice up and package their own freakish cake as something "special" like the daily special at a restaurant. (LPT: don't ever order the seafood special at a restaurant and if anyone in Finance tries to sell you something special, run)

They also do other weird things with the cake and crumbs. Like letting people bet on whether the crumb lands on the floor, or the table. Or other things like having other people buy a piece of small cake today and promise them a bigger piece tomorrow.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Wall Street does a ton of things and it's huge. Trying to say all of what wall street does in this answer is not possible. Instead, I'll talk about two big things that wall street does.

1) Wall Street moves money from people who have it to people who need it.

2) Wall Street moves risk from people who have it to people who want it

As for 1) when a company issues stock or bonds, they're doing that because they want to raise money. They want to invest that money in the business (hopefully) to hire more people or build more factories or w/e. These companies go to Wall Street (Let's say they go to our friends at Goldman sachs) and Wall Street will hook them up with the investors (hedge funds, pension funds, other asset managers, whatever). These investors are looking for a place to put their money and hopefully generate more money. Goldman Sachs will then facilitate the linking process between these two groups. 

This is just one example of how Wall Street moves money from the people who have it to the people who need it. Another example might be when you invest your money by giving it to Vanguard. You have surplus money right now, and you feel that in the future, you will need more money (you'll be retired or w/e.). Vanguard will then take that money and invest it so that in the future it'll be the same (or hopefully more) amount of money. 

There are a ton of other examples of how Wall Street moves money from the people who have it to the people who need it.

2) Risk - Let's say you're McDonalds. You make burgers that ppl like to buy. But, as a part of your business model, you want to charge a constant price for these burgers. You want to always charge $5 for a big mac. But, the price of wheat/beef/lettuce/whatever ISN'T constant. If there's some disease that kills a bunch of cows, then the price of beef will go up. How do you, as McDonalds, still provide a constant price to your customers? Well, you'll go over to your friends on Wall Street, and try to arrange a deal, where you can acquire beef/lettuce/whatever at a price that you set now. In that sense, you can eliminate the risk of the price going up and you can charge your customers a constant price for your products. On the other side, let's say you're an expert on lettuce farming techniques, and you're sure that the price of lettuce is about to crash. You have info on a new GMO that will make lettuce a lot easier to produce. To exploit this knowledge, you'll take on the risk that McDonalds previously had by selling them lettuce at a set price for future delivery.  If all goes well, the price of lettuce will go down and you will be able to buy lettuce for cheap, and then give it to McDonalds at the higher price you set today. Wall Street facilitates these transactions. This is a small example of how Wall Street can help transfer risk from people who don't want risk to speculators. 


This is a pretty short summary of what Wall Street does. There are a ton of other services that Wall Street provides to the public. If someone says Wall Street doesn't do anything important, then they really don't know what Wall Street does. Wall Street provides an essential service to the public. But yeah, obviously they do get greedy and stupid sometimes.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Oooh I can finally answer a question!

A lot of the answers here are riddled with misinformation.  The answer to your question is people on Wall Street do a ton of different things.  

Investment Banking: this department is essentially corporate finance advisory. There are a few different areas of IB, the most well known area of ibanking is mergers and acquisitions, investment bankers advise companies on buying and merging with other companies.  When you hear about Facebook buying WhatsApp, or mega mergers, investment banks were behind the scenes trying to help the deal go through.  There are also other areas of banking like restructuring, equity capital markets (releasing stock to raise capital), debt capital markets (issuing bonds and debt to raise capital).

Research/Sales/Trading: this is the part of investment banks that buy, sell, trade, and release research reports.  They trade investor money and try to make money essentially any way they can.  Some people trade derivatives, others mortgage backed securities, and many other products.

Then there are other areas of finance like asset management which can range from helping people manage personal savings to helping manage pension funds etc.

Do they create things?  Kind of.  Wall Street enables a hundred different industries by providing debt and helping to raise capital.  The asset management side of things help ensure that pension funds don't run insolvent to ensure that senior citizens have cash that they have rightly earned over their careers.  Obviously, there have been many unethical actions taken by financial institutions over the years, but historically have created far more wealth and value than they have destroyed.

It is incredibly difficult to get hired.  The majority of front office functions of banks (functions that are revenue generating) are held by Ivy League graduates with top gpas.  Many front office positions require a ton of hours and are incredibly high stress.

Source: have worked a variety of different positions at a variety of banks.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Whatever everyone else says, there's at least a couple of guys on wall street who sell falafel.   I've met them.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: At the broadest level, the financial system takes money from people who aren't spending it (savers/investors/lenders) and channels it to people who need it (borrowers), either to smooth out their income or to make productive investments. 

There are two main ways to do this: institutions and markets. Commercial banks are institutions that take money from savers (deposits, CDs etc) and lend it to borrowers. The US (for historical and regulatory reasons) has thousands of commercial banks, spread throughout the country. Some of the biggest ones (like JP Morgan or Citi) are based in NY, others (like Wells Fargo or Bank of America) are not.

The other channel is markets. Companies issue stocks (which are risky but offer upside because they pay a share of the profits)  and bonds (which offer a guaranteed return, hence safer (but not completely safe because the company could always go bust) but less upside) to investors. Other entities - especially governments - also issue bonds. Fund managers (such as Vanguard or Fidelity) put these stocks and bonds  together into funds that are diversified, hence less risky, and sell them to investors. Some funds (hedge funds) take on additional risk (but, in principle, better return) by borrowing money rather than just selling shares to investors. The main stock and bond markets in the US are based in NY, but the fund managers are headquartered all over the country. 

Investment banks (like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley) do many things, but historically have two functions: banking and trading. The banking side helps big companies issue stocks and bonds. They gauge the market demand, set appropriate prices, find big investors to take up the securities, manage the logistical aspects. Related to this, when there's a merger or takeover, investment banks provide advice and help arrange the financing. On the trading side, investment banks have proprietary "desks" that specialize in buying and selling stocks, bonds and other kinds of securities. Partly this helps them understand the markets so they can do better at banking and advisory, but also (some would argue mainly) it's a way to make money. Most investment banks are based in NY, so they can be "close" to the markets (there are some smaller regional ones).

The Depression-era Glass-Steagall Law put tough limits on what commercial and investment banks could do, and mandated that these institutional types be separate (in other countries, esp in Europe, "universal banks" have historically done both commercial and investment banking). Glass Steagall was gradually worn down over the years, until the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of the late 1990s essentially allowed commercial and investment banks to do pretty much anything the other could do. 

They were still regulated by separate bodies, however, with the commercial banks under a still relatively strict regime run by the Fed and the Comptroller of the Currency (for larger banks) and the FDIC and state regulators (for smaller ones). The investment banks were under a "light touch" regime run by the SEC, which focused on making sure markets ran smoothly. Since the 2007-09 financial crisis and the Dodd Frank Act, the remaining big investment banks converted themselves into Bank Holding Companies (hence under the Fed for regulation) and have been supervised much more closely.

Do they create anything? Well, they help allocate money more efficiently. That sounds pretty weak, but in a $17 trillion economy it can actually be pretty important. As we learned in 2008, when it goes wrong it can have some big consequences. There is research saying the financial system is probably bigger than it needs to be - and after a point, a larger financial system does not seem to help countries much in terms of growth. But that doesn't mean it's worthless either.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: People on Wall Street get rich. That is their #1 goal.

Ideally Wall Street's function is to allocate capital  properly. 

In reality, due to unrestrained greed, regulatory capture,  etc., and with the help of Sen Schumer Wall Street makes money by cheating, scamming, high frequency trading, and the such. 

Goldman is the top bank of Wall Street, and in the word of Matt Taibi, "the world's most powerful investment bank is a great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money."

Edit: typo, accurate quotation
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: The service provided by the stock market is resource allocation. By buying and selling, they find the market value of things. It allows successful companies to raise capital. 

Wall St firms all have analyists, whose job it is to go over company's numbers, and make judgements about their future earnings, trying to find potential investments. This is basically why people hire brokers, because it's time consuming to do this reseach yourself.

And the of course there is the shady side of it, collusion, insider trading, pump and dump. Those guys are all jerks.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Here is the "non complicated" answer - Wall street is a place where people with money come to make more money and where people who need money come to ask for money so they can also make more money.

And here are the answers to your questions.
Do they create anything? Yes.  They create liquidity and opportunities for both parties in my definition above to make money.  They provide services for both parties so those parties can provide tangible products and services to you, the consumer.

Are they just playing with people's money?  No.
No one would trust their hard earned (or easily earned) money with someone who just fucks around.  People want a return on their investment not someone to "play" with their money.

Does it serve any purpose to society?  Yes.  The roads you drive on, the buildings you live in are all built by money that is facilitated from wall street.  The products and services that are provided to you (iphones, toaster ovens, etc.) have all come from the help of wall street (loans and stock/bond offerings).

If you want to learn more about finance you can try khan academy or _URL_0_.  Don't listen to these fucking morons on the internet who think wall street serves "not too much" of a purpose to society.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Wall Street's intended function is the optimal allocation of resources. With many investors choosing where to put their money, the theory is that this will result in the most worthwhile and beneficial projects receiving the most capital. 

The incentive is pretty simple. If you direct your capital to a project you believe in (by buying a share of stock), you can later sell it for more money, once that enterprise has used your money to become successful. Or you can keep it and be entitled to a portion of the enterprise's proceeds (dividends).

And for the most part, it works. The tricky part is that it leverages greed. And greed has a way of gaming it the system. The players can become less interested in the worthy allocation of capital and more interested in making a quick buck. That is why we regulate trading pretty heavily (and some would say not heavily enough).
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Buy, sell, borrow and loan, basically.

On the plus side, they can diversify risk away and let people move money through time, which can unlock tons of economic opportunity and innovation.

On the downside, they can amplify risk and create a lot of useless friction, especially when they give into either excessive automation or let cognitive biases get away from them.  Or when they're selfish a-holes.

Basically, those who treat finance as a zero-sum game destroy value, and those who treat it as a win-win create value.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: There is a Netflix documentary called The Pit.                           
It explains commodities trading and all those people standing on the floor yelling at each other.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Wall Street is a massive term for banks on and around Manhattan in NYC. Hell, even banks and funds in NJ gets lumped with Wall Street, sometimes as far as Greenwich, CT. So for argument, let's define Wall Street as most serious financial institutions in the proximity of Manhattan. 

These institutions can vary very much in size. From the smallest one man funds, to large investment banks with thousands of employees. The various companies focus on different things: Some only deal in certain markets and niches, while others have many different divisions that tackle these. 

**Investment Banks (IB)** = In general, they underwrite. That is, they raise capital for their clients (companies) from potential investors. But they also do many, many other things. Regular credit/commercial banks can't do this, because of the laws. So when you go to Bank of America (or whatever), it's not the same branch of the bank that deals with IB stuff. 

**Mergers and Acquisitions (MA)** = When two companies want to merge, or one wants to acquire another, they contact banks to help them structure the process. 

**Private Equity (PE)** = PE groups, or funds, strictly deal with private capital, and private companies. Large PE groups own private companies. If you go to a Investment Bank, and say that you want to sell your company to the best bidder, they usually get in touch with PE groups in larger banks, or smaller PE firms. 

**Real Estate (RE)** = Same as PE, but they own assets that are tied up to Real Estate. Want to start a fund that invests in the rising real estate prices? You contact the RE groups. 

**Private Wealth Management (PWM)** = The group and managers that handles the wealth/portfolio of private individuals.  

**Hedge Funds (HF)** = Investment funds that minimize/offset risk by hedging. Basically, if you forecast that one investment is going to rise by a rate of two, and also forecast that another investment is going to sink by one (maybe it's even tied up to investment one, in one way or another), you invest in both. In  the end, you should end up with a net sum of positive one. This is a safety measure.

Hedge funds have been extremely popular for the 20 last years, and you've seen all sorts of "exotic" types.

**Venture Capital** = These funds and groups raise money for promising and new companies, i.e Startups. This is by nature very risky, but the reward can be huge. 

And the list goes on. 

So the banks either raise capital, advise, or invest on their own behalf, or on clients behalf. Clients can be individuals, trust funds, funds, global funds, companies, and what not. 

How do they affect you? In many ways. Look at these examples 

As a inventor / entrepreneur: 

You come up with a great idea, but don't have enough money to develop it. What do you do? One option is to contact **Venture Capitalists**. You meet up with them, pitch your idea, and they love it. They offer to back up your startup, for a share of the company. No growth = no success, so you agree. Maybe they get 70% of the company, and you / early members get the 30%. 

Your startup turns out to be wildly successful, and 5-10 years down the road, you and the VC's agree that it's time to let in other investors. That is, you turn your company to a publicly traded company. Well how does one do that? You contact the **Investment Banks**! Or maybe a smaller firm that focuses on the whole process. 

In the end, you settle for a couple of different groups, from different banks. Banks like Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs. Either way, your company is now being traded. Everyone can buy shares, and own a bit of your company. 

You decide to retire, and sell all your shares. Maybe you net a nice billion or two. What happens next? 

A) For your part, you can spend the money as you like. Maybe you want to invest them on your own, or maybe you contact a PWM manager to do that for you. 

B) For the companies part: Maybe some PE group now owns them, or a huge chunk of the company. Sometime down the road, maybe a competitor offers a Merger. Who knows.  

Either way, all these banks and firms have been part of the deals. 

Sorry for the long write-up, as it's a huge, huge topic. But the real **TL;DR ELI5** would be: Wall Street banks raise capital/underwrite, offer advisory to clients, invest money or their own, or their clients behalf. Everything that is related to Finance, they do. 

There's no monstrous catch-all bank that excels at absolutely everything...different firms on wall street are good at different things. 

You find these banks in, and in the areas around: Wall Street (NYC), City (of London), Frankfurt, Singapore, etc.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Assuming you don't just mean stock markets, but generally the financial industry on wall street.

Some people are brokers, like middleman finding two people who want to have a transaction.  Imagine you have a trainload of corn to sell - you need to sell that to someone who wants a trainload of corn.  Instead of calling all of your friends, you call up a Wall Street broker, who can put this corn up for sale, helping find a buisness who wants all that corn.

Other people are investors.  Maybe they take the corn, and hold onto it for a few days, and when the price of corn goes up, they sell it.   They can also invest another way, by "borrowing" someone's corn at the current market rate, selling it now, and waiting for the price to go down before buying the corn back to return to the original owner.

Still others are bankers, holding on to money for lots of people, and in turn lending some portion of that money out for others.  The people giving their money to the bank get more money back (because people who were lent money must pay interest back), and the bankers make some money on those loans.  People getting loans get money they need "right now" with the expectation that they can "pay it back later."

But what really makes wall street tick is not each of these individual transactions, but rather these transactions in all together.  For every transaction that makes money, there's transactions that lose money.  Thus, the banker holding on to people's money and lending it out, might lend it out to people who don't pay him back.  Or maybe the price of corn goes down after you bought it and now you have to sell it at a loss, because what are you gonna do with all that corn?  Wall Street has enough outlets like this such that wall street businesses can protect these "bets" by placing opposite bets - maybe you buy the corn, but then protect that by also betting at worse odds that the market for corn will go down.  You can spread these buying and selling across different places, so that maybe you protect your corn by buying gold, or putting money in a bank.

Similarly, anything can essentially be sold.  Those loans that were offered by that bank? Well, those people are going to be paying interest over time.  Maybe the bank would rather sell off those loans now to someone else who wants to get those interest payments. Maybe there's four house loans together that cost the bank $1million to loan out, but over 30 years the bank gets $1.3 million back (the loan plus interest).  The bank could sell that to someone else for $1.1 million, thus making back their money, but now not risking those people forgetting to make their payments over 30 years.  The person buying those loans takes the risk that those loans might go bad, for $0.2million gain.

These sort of transactions help sellers with things, sell them when they want to, for a "fair" rate.  It also helps buyers who want things find the things they want.  In the middle, people make money off of the transactions.  

Some people don't like the fact that the middle man makes money.  You can imagine wall street like a fancy Walmart.  Walmart doesn't "make" those nike shoes, panasonic tvs, or lays potato chips, they buy them for less than they sell them for.  What do you the consumer get? You get access to those goods in the same place, for a low price, because Walmart is able to negotiate the purchase of millions of units. Without Walmart in the middle, you'd have to find a way to get distributor-level access to all of those products, or go through a specialty shop, which would mark up the goods even more.  That's not to say middlemen are always good, but perhaps a necessary evil that must be somewhat limited with a few strict rules.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: They solve this problem, mainly for companies: "I want to do something productive with a lot of money, but I don't have the money yet."

This is why companies sell ownership in themselves (stock) and promises to pay you back later a little more than you pay now (bonds). Doing this is very complicated, and Wall Street firms will hold your hand through processes like IPO and bond issue in exchange for a percentage of what you raise.

Then, *lots* of interesting things happen because what people are willing to pay for those stocks and bonds can change over time. Wall street companies help themselves (proprietary trading) and their clients (investment banking) turn money into more money based on these price movements. This is (kind of) the same money that helps companies do expensive stuff.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Really, Wall St right now is more residential than business.  Many of the larger financial firms have moved to midtown NYC and buildings are being quickly turned residential.

Edit:  I should also add that the stock exchanges all exist in data centers in New Jersey.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Bank takes your money to protect it and pays your 3% interest, takes the money you're not using and loans it out for 6%. Then they go out for golf at 3. It's called the 3-6-3 plan.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: From a very basic view, they facilitate the movement of excess money (or capital) from people/funds/corporations (investors) to companies/corporations that require additional capital to create value.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: I'm going to give a very high level explanation to your question. I feel like Wall Street gets demonized and while undoubtedly Wall Street did a ton of bad things, it serves a vital place in Society. Like many others have said, the average Wall Street employee isn't a Gordon Gekko, but someone who makes a good living in exchange for working insane hours and having little job security.

Disclaimer: I work at an investment bank. I am not a fiduciary. This is my opinion only and other people might disagree. This is only a broad overview and doesn't touch upon all the relevant risks. This is not investment or tax advice, or an offer to buy or sell anything. Talk to your attorney and financial advisor and do your own due diligence. Investing has risks and you could lose money. Don't sue me.

At it's core, Wall Street does two things:

**1) Match people who have money with people who need money:** 
People with money (investors) give money to companies in need of money to grow their businesses and in return, the investors receive an IOU (debt) or part ownership in the company (stock).

This is important to Society for several reasons:
1) It's a fair way to give money to the most deserving companies. Since an investor can lose money if they give money to the wrong company, an investor is incentivized to do their homework and give money only to the best companies. 
2) This is a way for companies to undertake longer term projects. It's very hard for a company to grow solely through reinvesting their own money. For example, it's very hard for you to come up with enough money to buy your own house outright. Most people borrow a majority of the money to buy a house from a bank and pay the money back over time. Companies undertake investments in things like factories that are expensive upfront, but may be profitable in the long run.

**2) Match people who want to take risk with people who do not want to take risk:**
Let's say you are a farmer who grows corn. The price of corn today is $1, but you won't be able to harvest your corn now since its still in the ground. You are worried about the price of corn going down in 6 months, at harvest time. On the other hand, you have cereal companies that need corn to make cereal. These companies are worried about the price of corn going up in 6 months, since that would cause the price of their cereal to go up. Wall Street matches these people up, such that they can agree on a price today for the corn that will get harvested and delivered in 6 months. In this case, both parties are happy since the farmer is guaranteed a price to sell their corn (ie. no risk that the price of corn goes down) and the cereal company is happy since they're guaranteed a price to buy their corn (ie. no risk that the price of corn goes up).

This is important to Society because it lets people have certainty about prices, so they can plan around them. A farmer might decide that since he or she is guaranteed a price for their corn, they can go out and buy a tractor, which will help double the amount of corn they can produce. If the farmer didn't have certainty about the price of corn, they might not want to go out and buy a tractor since the price of corn might go down and it and they might not bring in enough money to pay for the tractor.

Wall Street gets into problems when:
1) They don't do enough homework and lend too much money to bad companies that can't pay the money back.
2) They take too much risk. Often times, there aren't two people with opposite risks like the farmer and the cereal company. When this happens, the farmer will enter into an agreement with a Wall Street firm. If a Wall Street firm enters into too many of these agreements and the price of corn goes down, the Wall Street firm loses a lot of money. If they lose enough money, then they might go bankrupt and might be unable to honor existing agreements.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: They help with the exchange of goods and services as well as facilitate the movement of money. 

Essentially the value of everything is different everywhere, a programmer in new york gets paid differently from one in frankfurt, dublin, mumbai etc. This is even for food, like meat, fish to oil and even sand... basically everything.

To help elaborate a bit more i need a historical example. Traders in europe in the past used to travel all the way to India in the hope of buying spices at say 10$ a ton. They were based in europe and they knew for a fact they could sell a ton of spices for 25$ because it was harder to make spices in europe. So they would buy it at 10$ and sell for 25$ and make a nice 15$ profit. Some of the guys on wall street do this, theyre traders, they buy and sell platinum and ensure that the price of platinum for example is roughly equal around the world. This makes it easier for everyone to buy say platinum as there is (generally speaking) a single agreed upon price which makes it easier for everyone to do business.

Now prices arent the same on a daily or even monthly basis. For example, sunblock will cost more in summer than in winter because more people use it. Another example is roses on valentines day or fireworks over new years. This can be called short term investing or trading depends on how you view things. You buy lots of sunblock when its cheap in winter and sell in summer. A problem that can happen here is, say now the economy was hit, lots of people lose their jobs and no one goes out in summer and you dont sell any sunblock. Or alternatively everyone does really well and you run out on sunblock. Obviously it would help if you knew in advance how much sunblock to buy, the guys that do this are called analysts they try to predict the future price of goods and services so that traders and investors can know whether to buy or sell something right now or hold onto it. (This is where the value of information comes in, if you know something sooner than everyone else you can make a lot or prevent yourself from losing a lot, imagine you knew about the 08 crisis on the day before, or even just one hour ahead of everyone else).

Lastly you get investors, now you get lots of types of investors. In general though these guys take money that belongs to other people and try to grow it for them. In exchange they take a portion of the growth or the whole, it really depends on how they operate their business. As a broad breakdown some of these guys buy goods and services, others buy companies (you get lots of different types of companies from a financial point of view), others even buy bonds (debt essentially) or even buy risk (insurance).
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: This is a generic question like: what does an engineer do? Hard to say without talking about the specific kind of engineer - so here are a few examples:

For the US folks: when you take out a mortgage for your new home, the bank pays the seller. The bank can only pay for so many of such homes if they only used the money they had with them. They need to get other people(or institutions) to pitch in with their money. To do that , they let them own the loan payments you make in return for cash (and keep a portion of it). This is done by packaging loans like yours into "products" (a bunch of legal documents) that let others buy them.

Now if you think about it, this requires experts who can create "products" like these, experts who know how to price these(the prices can change often for all sorts of reasons) , people to sell these (and resell), buyers who want to achieve something ( for example a Japanese institution that figures its a better deal to buy this than a treasury bond) and so on. 

All these things are pretty different skills of people in Wall St. Apart from that there are a bunch of support personnel, IT folks etc to ensure everything works.

In this example, we got the ability to have a vibrant market letting people buy homes and get home loans ( downside being the effects of the crisis were all over the world)

This packaging of "products " happens for a lot of other cases as well. You 401k has a fund that tracks a market index for example: someone's out there buying and selling different kinds of stocks (and other products) to closely approximate the behavior if that index.

Commodities: an airline needs fuel for this year. They aren't paying at the current rate at the pump : they buy for a long time into the future for fuel that will be sent to them ("an oil future" is a "product") - someone is willing to give them a price and take on the risk if the price rises if you think about it.

Many other areas: foreign exchange, treasury bonds, stocks, etc have a variety of tasks that financial professionals work on. (Facebook starting an IPO, exchange rates getting set, the government raising money,  and so on).
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: I work on Wall Street; excited when I saw your question (thanks for asking it).

Companies exist to make money for shareholders. Companies make money by selling services and/or goods. They do this with assets (factories, intellectual property, etc.). Assets cost money, and this money can come from the initial investors of the start-up (in the form of equity, by which the equity investors are shareholders and are entitled to profits of the business), from debt (like from commercial banks, e.g. 'loans' and 'bonds' as they're called), or secondary equity (selling equity of the company to private investors or the public, who also become shareholders).

Repeat: companies must finance assets with capital in the form of equity and debt in order to make money.

Investment banks (for which Wall Street is a colloquialism) are middlemen for "capital markets". They connect companies with investors who can invest capital (debt or equity). 

Investors include large pension fund managers, university endowments, hedge funds managing private wealth, and asset managers of corporate funds, who invest in IPOs and bond issues that the investment banks organize.

Investors invest in company capital in order to receive a return on investment; they want to grow the wealth that they hold. For debt capital, investors receive interest. For equity, investors receive profits (free cash flow) in the form of dividend payments, share price appreciation from the business becoming more valuable over time, and stock buybacks.

Investment banks do other things like M & A advisory (which is what I do; one company or investor purchasing capital in the form of an entire company's equity and debt (capital structure)) and sales and trading (providing securities trading services to investors).

IN SUMMARY: companies need money to grow their business and investors want to invest in enterprises that can yield a return on investment. Wall Street facilitates these two needs by enabling investors to invest in companies, in the form of debt and equity.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: There's basically two thing happening on Wall Street at any given time.

One is basically greasing the wheels of Capitalism.  Bringing together those with money they want to invest with people who have investments they want to make in their business, and trying to do it in a way that the most profitable ideas get the most money.

The other thing is basically gambling.  Instead of looking at fundamentals, they're trying to make money on the random-ish fluctuations of the market.  The more gamblers there are though, the more profitable gambling becomes, as gambling causes a positive feedback loop on the natural market forces.  So when, for instance, a stock has some bad news, and the gamblers sell, they drop the price a lot more than "market forces" would normally cause.  Same for when there's "good news."

So how efficient Wall Street is is mostly up the the ratio of greasers to gamblers.  When that ratio gets unbalanced, as when the [oil market was deregulated](_URL_1_) you start getting a lot more variation in prices, which is very bad for smaller firms who can't absorb significant fluctuation, whether in raw material prices or in investment capital.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: > Do they create anything?

They create **the market**. They do this by bringing the largest # of people together for whatever that thing is that is being marketed. A better question might be do they create *too much?* in terms of derivatives... probably. You can literally bet directly on the volatility of markets now, for instance. 

 > Are they just playing with everybody's money?

They are happy to have the money. "Wall Street" makes huge money from; commissions, brokerage fees, data fees, exchange fees, application/platform fees, etc. - basically money is made every time a transaction takes place .
 > Does it serve a purpose?

Wall Street brings exponentially more people interested in buying and selling, ideally creating the best possible "fair" value for whatever it is you're selling.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: Wall Street Bankers do one thing: they connect people that want to save money with people that want to borrow money.  That is it.  Some poeple have more money than they need, and they want to earn interest on that additional money.  Wall Street Bankers connect those savers with people that have less money than they need who are willing to pay interest to borrow the savers' money.  If you are good at connecting people who want to earn interest on money with people who will pay interest to borrow money, then you can charge a nice fee for your services.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: If you're talking about big time CEOs or even your average level Wall Streeter, they spend a lot of time just meeting with people and talking to people.  People from insurance sales to top CEOs spend a lot of time meeting with clients, who can range from an average retiring couple to a very rich client.  A lot of time and energy is spent developing relationships and networking basically.  No matter what level of business you're at, you need to make business connections that you can call on in the future or to reel in certain clients/customers.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: I wish that I could give you a good answer, but the truth is that this video from our friends at Warner Brothers really explains it much better than I could.

So without further ado, I'd like to present our host for this evening, Mr. Elmer Fudd:

_URL_2_

The purpose of Wall Street is to help facilitate the flow of capital between those with the money to invest and those who need that capital to expand or modernize.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: What they're supposed to do, and some still do is connect inventors, entrepreneurs and businesses with capital to build the business. What a lot of them do is speculation on prices (e.g. buy a stock now with the expectation that it will be priced higher a year from now/tomorrow/ten seconds from now/etc..), although if the market rewards them with money then I suppose it finds this activity useful.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: People who work on walstreet manage money. Just like a farmer wakes up early and counts the eggs and chickens and keeps them safe from foxes. Someone who works on walstreet manages money. Just like the farmer and the chickens they wake up early and make sure that the money we save in a bank grows in value and is protected from loss.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: TIL how negatively "Wall Street" is really viewed by most layman. 

Been working on "Wall Street" on both the buy and sell sides for 20+ years. Never thought the "boogeyman' narrative that has been pushed in politics for the past few years would catch on so well.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: I usually grab a coffee at la colombe and then go to my office where i crunch excel spreadsheet between playing online games.

sometimes i get a ham and cheese croissant.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: If you want a really good insight, read Michael Lewis book, Liar's Poker. The Big Short is good too.
question: What do people on Wall street actually do?[removed] answer: What do you mean Charlie? We create wealth
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: You're assuming banks actually care about consumers.  They don't.

Banks make most of their money out of businesses - the charges involved in business banking, merchant accounts, etc. are far more profitable than the tiny fees paid by most consumers.

Banks are open when their profitable customers are open - during business hours.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: In the US, banks have only recently (in the last couple of decades) become computerized at the branch level. Before that every transaction done was recorded in a ledger at that branch. This is why there would be fees and limitations on what you could do if you went to a branch that didn't 'hold' your account. They had no quick way of verifying funds. 

I never worked at a bank while they were run on paper so I don't know the details completely, but each day every teller must balance his or her drawer and without having a computer system doing the majority of the work it can be very tedious and time consuming, which is why banks used to close at 3pm. To give their staff a reasonable amount of time to balance and reconcile the day's transactions and go home. 

Nowadays every transaction is recorded electronically and sent to a central database. Making balancing nothing more than counting the cash in your drawer and comparing it to what the computer says you should have. 

Also, the Federal Reserve processes every single check and electronic transaction that goes through the bank even today. The routing number on your checks which looks like " :|123456789:| " tells the Fed what bank that check is from and where to send it to collect funds. You deposit a check from x bank to z bank, z bank then sends the check off to the Fed which then presents the check to bank x. So because the Fed isn't open on the weekends everything done over the weekend is posted for Monday's date, the next available business day. 

So essentially the reason for 'bankers hours' is a result of the history of the financial system and logistical restrictions. With that being said many large banks have been expanding their hours on weekdays and weekends. I think it is only a matter of time before we see banks start to utilize modern technology more and more allowing them to stay open for more hours a week.

I'm half asleep so this may or may not make any sense but whatever. 

Source: Worked at a bank for the past 5 years.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Telephone banking, Internet banking, and, more recently, banking via mobile apps are all available 24 hours a day for most bank accounts, and most people can do the majority of their banking through these means. So there'd probably be very little benefit to only a small number of customers if they stayed open late - most people simply don't need to visit their branch often enough to be worthwhile.

Having said that, if one bank stayed open late, I bet the others would keep a careful eye on what happened to decide if they needed to do the same to keep competitive. Right now, none of them see the need to be the first to do it.

Also, I suspect that banks make most of their money from corporate or business accounts, rather than personal accounts. This is different to, say, supermarkets, who make most of their money from personal customers (and they *do* stay open late - often 24 hours where I live).
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Come to Russia. Ridiculous amount of  establishments are open 24 hours. Not just supermarkets or bars, but even bookshops and hairdressers. Banks are usually open until 20.00, some offices work later.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Try coming to Spain. The banks here close at 2 pm. wtf?
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Hmm.  A lot of banks around here ARE open late/on limited hours on saturday to make up for this around here, but I agree.  It's pretty frustrating, especially if you have to cash your check on your lunch break.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: If your bank has an ATM that accepts checks, you can make deposits 24/7. My paychecks are handwritten as well, but the ATM has no problem reading them. The only time I've needed to actually go INSIDE my bank was to get a certified check to purchase a car. All my regular transactions are via the ATM, and online.

I don't even write checks anymore. Nearly everything can be paid electronically now, and in the off-chance that I need to send a physical check somewhere, I can request it online, and the bank sends the check directly to the recipient.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: The answer is in your question, the people who work at banks finish at the same time as most people.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: ELI5...Besides getting a loan or mortgage, what need (other than old people having someone to talk to) is there to go inside a bank? Anything you need can be done online or at an ATM.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Because banks exist to serve big and small business, which are open during 9-5 business hours.  That's where banks make their money...they don't really care about Joe Shmoe's bimonthly paycheque from Burger King.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Most branches in my area are open until 6:30 or 7:00 on Fridays for this exact reason.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Banks close a lot earlier than that where I live.

As I understand it, when a bank closes, there's a long complicated process everyone has to go through to make sure all the money is accounted for. That can take an hour or two. Maybe that's part of it.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Banks used to open at 10:00am  and close at 3:00pm, in the United States at least.  That's where the term "bankers hours" came from.  Start of late and close early.    My credit union closes at 6:pm and 4:pm on Saturdays.  Love it!
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: Many bank actually stay open later on weekends to help serve individuals. My bank is open until 6 every Friday and open a half day on Saturday so individuals can cash or deposit checks.
question: Why do banks close at five when most people are just getting off of work? Wouldn't it be in their better interest to stay open later? answer: this pisses me off about banks, the dmv, the post office....they're only open during hours when people are working.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: From my short experience as a construction worker, I can tell that this type of work is often done in bursts rather than steady progress hence the perception that nothing is ever being done. We can also list a short list of key factors that hamper the speed of the works:

* weather;

* equipment breakdown;

* delivery of materials;

* labor issues (sickness or shortages);

* collisions (i.e. some things cannot be done in the same time);

* delay of prerequisite works.

If you are doing construction pretty much every element must be in place for the works to progress and quite often unforeseen circumstances make it difficult to execute any plans in time.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Any road work is split in phases. The previous phase is essential to the ones after it. If one phase is delayed, the one after it is delayed and the effects are cumulative. 

You cant build the roof of a house before the foundation, but you cant build the foundation without leveling the ground...and so it goes. 

It always look like theyre doing nothing because most crew is doing nothing, as they have to wait for those who are working to finish their task in order to start working too.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Sometimes parts of a job will be labor intensive (like moving objects or fetching a part for a more skilled person) but some parts will require the labor of only one person (someone with higher training doing a specific job). Just because most of the time you dont need three people doesnt mean you can cut the other two people because when you need them they must be close. What do you have the other two people do? Mostly stand with a shovel waiting to do their part. 

Example: One senior man is driving the road grinder and is doing a great job but he cant grind up a certain patch of road. Two guys on the ground who have been standing close by jump into action with their shovels and clean up the missed debris. You driving by only got to see the job site for a few seconds and the two guys standing with shovels but not them actually doing physical work.

Second part of your question has to do mostly with inspections. You have to wait for every level of government to check every part of your job (and collect required fees for doing so) before you can move onto the next step. If one thing is wrong you may have to fix the mistake and wait days longer for the inspectors to return and let you move on to the next step.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Any delays can be easily explained in 3 words: blame the surveyor

If that doesnt work: blame the engineer
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: My dad did some road work, and really the truth is a lot of them are doing nothing but it's not really their fault.

It's not something you can do in parallel. You are reliant on the task before you and sometimes due to unexpected circumstances you just have to wait. Sometimes you are also waiting on materials, and in that case you just kinda hang around the work site.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: There has been continuous road work on a very small section of East downtown Dallas for like...5 years now?  I think they work one week a year and just leave up all the barriers in the interim.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Health and safety plays a role in this too, any heavy hand operated equipment (such as jackhammers etc.) have insanely strict time limits on how long one person can operate them to prevent permanent damage, its not cost effective to give every person a piece of the same equipment as time limit is still the same per person.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Used to live in a town where they would light up the 'hood 24/7 when working on the roads, just so that they could finish the job faster.

It was loud, annoying, and the traffic sucked : But it only sucked for a short amount of time instead of all summer long.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: The house next to mine took something like 2-3 years to be completed. The crew would work for 1-3 weeks, then nothing would be done for months at a time. After the foundation had been poured, summer and fall rain collected in it (several inches) and froze during the winter. One could have gone ice skating or played hockey in it.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: They are widening the road adjacent to our neighborhood from two lanes to four.  There are people in my neighborhood up in arms that they ripped out half the old road and haven't done anything to replace it in a few months.  They don't see the 24" concrete storm drains or 80' long concrete culverts they've been installing for the last few months.  Those projects take much longer than grading and paving the road surface.  There is usually a lot of unseen work going on that you may not see because it's either underground or has to do with stabilizing the soil under the road.  There are also the other issues like weather, red tape, phase planning, etc. that others have listed here. 

Short version:  A lot of the shit that is getting done isn't obvious from the rubbernecking driver's perspective.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: 1. Some of the work is literally back breaking. You have to rest half the time to protect your body. 

2. Safety and quality. Some of the people standing around are inspectors, safety officers, and supervisors who are there to watch the work and keep everyone safe and following the plans. 

3. Concrete. Concrete takes weeks to cure and be tested. 

4. Waiting. You have to wait for others to get their part done or materials to be delivered. 

5. Traffic control. If you have to work around traffic and phase the project it takes 3 times longer. 

6. Working hours. To keep costs lower most projects are shut down for weekends, over night, and holidays. 

7. Other projects. The builder may be simultaneously working on a few projects and is shuffling crews around. On the same note, sub-contractors are not necessarily reliable to show up when they are needed. When your concrete company decides to deliver to someone else, you cant do the concrete work that day. 

8. Weather. When its too hot, too cold, or too wet, the work stops.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: A road worker once told me that, the issue is regulatory approvals. They finish one layer of a project, then they need to call the government inspector and wait for the inspection to take place. Only then can they start the next layer.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: A city planner in the small city I live in told me if a contractor bids a job for x amount of dollars for 12 months they dont get the entire amount unless it actually takes 12 months. There is no incentive to complete the job early. 

Just hearsay and I have no proof this dude is actually an employee of the city. He was an Uber passenger.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: So I work in construction and run into this issue all the time. Customers will complain that work hasn't happened when were 80% done with work.

What we consider progress and others do is significantly different. Prep time is almost all of our work, we can demo out old wires, run new pipe, rough in our wires, all of that. That's at least 80% of the work. But devices aren't in and wired, trim out is such a small part of the job, but it's what a customer sees as "done"

I know painters run into this too, taping, scraping, washing and everything else is almost all of their work. Slapping some paint on only takes a few hours.

I don't know about roadworks but I have to imagine that it's the same.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: From what I know, most road work crews are unionized workers that follow a strict guideline of how things must be done.

Any number of issues can come up during road maintenance that can cause delays.

* Improper filing of correct licenses
* Improper licenses of work to be done
* Wrong materials for what is needed to be done
* Unmarked utility lines that are discovered and requires additional paperwork and changes to maintenance
* Union workers hit maximum # of hours for the day
* Not enough workers to work on site
* Weather
* Equipment breakdown
* Delivery of materials delayed
* Inspection failures
* Contractor Civil Engineer fails to include waterways and other natural resources that cross the barrier
* Lack of funding
* Crappy contractors
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Municipal service employee here! No one realizes just how time consuming road repair is. Lots of times its due to the distance our garage is to the job site. Equipment is forgotten or broken. The heat also takes its toll on us high vis wearing folk. Biggest factor I would say though is traffic. Its very difficult and dangerous to work with moderate to heavy traffic. Its easy to get frustrated and look at a road crew as simply lazy or slow. My whole perception has changed since doing this job. Also, SLOW DOWN AND MOVE OVER FOR ROAD WORKERS! Even small landscaping crews.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Politics and money. 

You want to see decent construction times? Look at Japan, and check out why they are so much more efficient.

Construction here in the states is a racket.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Some of this can be from the materials being used having to cure. For instance concrete has to cure 28 days for full strength but sometimes you can get traffic on it in 7 days. Either way, during this time there is not much other work they can do. Same goes for other materials like lime. Lime is used to treat clay subgrades. It makes clayey soil act like non-cohesive soils and lets you compact it. Anyway, the process to mix in lime into soil usually involves mixing it in, waiting 7 days and mixing it again, compacting it, grading it.
So all this is to say sometimes materials involve curing time where major work can't really go on in that area.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: People also forgeting that for example when you use concrete you have to wait a month, same with soil stabilization. Next part is that ofcourse money. There is huge competition in building roads, to cut the cost down you cut workers, machines etc. Next part is just that road is rarely closed all together, you can always get around, so there is always time. I work in railway construction where the is no way around and time is very limited, we usually work 12 hours a day sometimes for weeks to finish what we have to because there are insane fines for being late.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: I point the finger solidly at concrete or asphalt cure times. Nothing touches that area until it is cured, and it passes the 7, 14, and 21 day stress tests. It takes much longer than people think to harden up properly.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Another factor to consider when crews are excavating  would be either unknown cables in the way, pipework not being at the location shown or an obstruction of some kind (for example a buried tank) being in the way.
question: What takes road work crews so long to complete their maintenance? Why does it always look like they are doing nothing or nothing has changed?[removed] answer: Union workers. Come to China or Japan, watch the crews here resurface 4-5 kilometers of road in 24-36 hours.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Artificial rain is just water that's forced to fall out of the sky as rain by some chemical. So a plane will "seed" a cloud with this chemical, and the chemical reacts with the water in the cloud to make it form drops and fall.

It doesn't actually create any new water moisture though. So in California's case, where it's not just a lack of rain, but a lack of moisture in the atmosphere, seeding the clouds wouldn't help because there wouldn't be very much rain to seed in the first place.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: To seed clouds, you have to have clouds. 

It's always sunny in California. 

Edit: it is *often* Sunny in California. 

_URL_0_
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: I think what happened in China was that they already had clouds but they controlled when they released rain.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: There has to be water available to rain for this to work, China isn't flying 55 billion tons of water up to a high altitude and dropping it, they're forcing clouds that wouldn't have rained on the location they wanted it to rain on to rain.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: I wonder where all of that moisture would have naturally precipitated...are they yoinking the neighbours rain?
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Almonds need to cease to be a thing. Especially in California. One single almond requires something like 2.2 gallons of water to grow. Why in a state plagued by water issues, since forever, do they continue to grow one of the least efficient things? It's califnornia, literally the state in the union known for being Eco-friendly and overly zealous about sustainability.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: We DO cloud seed in California, a lot. Pg & e seeds in the sierras to beef up their hydroelectric power generation. Silver nitrate particles are basically dispersed in the cloud, moisture condenses on the particles, creating a chain reaction causing the cloud to start precipitating. There some, limited, evidence that this has lowered precipitation in the Great Basin region where some of that moisture would have ended up.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Meteorologist here.

There's more to how rain works than just clouds. You need enough moisture for there to be enough condensation to accumulate and fall as substantial rain. Then there's also the various forcing mechanisms that create lift and allow that condensation to happen.

So in other word, you can seed clouds with silver iodide or whatever your seed of choice is, but there's no guarantee that you'll make any rain, as 1) you're missing a lot of moisture to begin with, and 2), you have nothing driving the condensation process.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Fun fact:  Bernard Vonnegut (Kurt Vonnegut's brother) discovered the process of cloud seeding.

_URL_1_

Edit: A word
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: California already does cloud seeding and has for the past couple years. We are still in a drought though!  _URL_2_
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: I'm pretty sure there was a One Piece arc about this concept actually. They had this chemical compound that they would burn and the smoke would cause it to rain, but it was essentially robbing the moisture from the surrounding areas, drying them into deserts.

I'm fairly certain the same principle would apply here, with less anime-driven-story-arc-devices. There has to be moisture available for cloud seeding to work, and from what I'm aware of, California is constantly dry. There's a reason there was a huge series of pipes erected during the early days of California's settlement, they had to pipe in water from other locations in order to irrigate crops/have drinking water in a reasonable supply.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Not an answer, but another question.  
  
I assume the air coming from China eventually ends up in California. Could the seeding and removal of that water be a reason why California has experienced such bad droughts for years?
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: No offence, but you've already redirected half the Mexico-bound water from the Colorado River basin to water golf courses and lawns in Palm Springs and LA, do you really need to control cloud patterns too?
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Adding to the ELI5, since Cali is next to an Ocean. Where does all the evaporated water go? I don't understand how there can be lack of moisture.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: California is a desert. There it not much water present in the form of clouds, or even invisible moisture in the air. China has the water present in the atmosphere, in the form of clouds. All they are really doing is hurrying along the regular water cycle.

There could be further ecological impacts to this that are not yet understood. For example, they may be depriving other locations of water by precipitating it in one location.

California's water system is in chaotic collapse due to the loss of the Salton Sea. For the past 100 years, the Salton Sea caused a change in the ecological system that largely benefited much of the Southern California region. That 'sea' (lake) has now been abandoned and is being left to dry up, starting in the 70's or so. Weather patterns have been in unfavorable decline ever since.

The sea could be saved by construction of a ~100 mile long canal out to the Gulf of California, through Mexico. The Salton Sea is currently saltier than the ocean itself, so introduction of seawater would actually lower the salinity back down to a reasonable level, with an essentially unlimited supply of water to maintain the lake. A 'sea' of similar size and identical composition could also be created in an entirely barren region of Mexico.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Former weather modification co-pilot. Weather modification is really an misnomer. It should be called cloud modification. There are really two different methods used depending on conditions.
1) Silver iodine flares or silver iodine "burner tanks" on the wings. Typically used under the cloud and where the updraft is 500ft/minute.
2) Dry ice dispersal in the cloud where you have liquid water you are wanting to freeze early.
Most of my experience was for hail suppression. An attempt to reduce the size and amount of hail generated by thunderstorms.
I am not sure that it is practical to use cloud seeding for drought modification since you would have to have just the right conditions and an extensive network of aircraft, which would be very expensive. Then the next state over would sue claiming you were stealing their rain. If there was a flood then you would be sued also.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Seeding a cloud is simply supplying a condensation nuclei to the atmosphere. The nuclei must be a non-gaseous very small particle to which water molecules will attach to to form liquid droplets. Precipitations will only occur if there is already moisture present and atmospheric conditions are right.  This isn't magical rain.  The reason this doesn't work in California is that moisture simply isn't there once you get away from the coast.  Here in north Texas, cloud seeding is regularly used but very rarely produces significant results. But when it does work, I have seen feet of rain over the course of a day. That is of course an extreme outlier for data of cloud seeding successes.  Most missions, if successful, produce ~30% more precipitation and make storms last 30-40% longer.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Some may be used, but a friend of mine did research on the consequences of Cloud Seeding and found that it resulted in severe adverse weather conditions and unpredictable forecasts. Research was conducted in the Caribbean.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: I live in Manchester you can have all our fucking rain!
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Considering that cloud seeding uses silver iodide, I would be wary of how toxic the chemical is:

*"With an NFPA 704 health hazard rating of 2, silver iodide can cause temporary incapacitation or possible residual injury to humans and mammals with intense or continued but not chronic exposure."*

So the question is whether or not cloud seeding uses enough of the stuff to hurt anyone, whether it accumulates in the water supply, whether it bioaccumulates in the food chain or if it can harm a specific but crucial plant or animal.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Funny - we've been talking about this here lately.  Google something called the "Ridiculously Resilient Ridge" - this is a bubble of high pressure off the Calif coast that blocks all the water-carrying clouds.

For seeding clouds for rain, you need to have moist air and/or clouds. The problem here is that all that moist air is being driven north (to Washington and Canada), and back down along with the jet stream to the midwest.  The air over california is bone-dry.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Can they do the opposite, like deter rainfall in a specific region for a period of time? Because it would be really swell for those of us in the British Isles to be able to see the sun from time to time; without having to go to some poor Greek island, on a cheap *Sun* holiday, and witness the horror that is our fellow countrymen giving feral, alcoholic pit-bulls a bad name.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: The government should just use their HAARP system and chemtrails to make clouds and end the drought.  The government wants to destroy CA with a drought.

*puts on tin foil hat*
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: TIL climate change might be due to humans having to mess with every aspect of our environment
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: _URL_3_

QUESTION: America has recently experienced severe droughts, notably in the past year in Texas, and in 2001 in Florida and Washington state. Why has airborne etheric rain engineering not been used to terminate these droughts?

TJC: First, ERE of Singapore does not actually SOLICIT business anywhere in the world. Those in need must come to us. I will explain that in due course. Secondly, ERE of Singapore would probably not undertake commercial rain operations anywhere in the USA, because of prohibitive damage liability exposure. Liability litigation is completely out of hand in America. This is tragic. Florida's drought, for example, is within a climatic regime where results with AEREO are virtually surefire. Getting results there is not the problem. The real problem is that if ERE were to wipe out a drought that is costing millions daily, American lawyers would not be content with that sweeping public benefit. Essentially bogus lawsuits would be contrived and filed, perhaps many of them, claiming that the company had hurt the filers. Lists of alleged damage would be compiled for the courts to wade through. The decent Singapore gentlemen who have backed AEREO would be shunted on to a typical legal treadmill, their good works paralyzed by specious legal action. The litigious character of our culture ensures this will occur, unless a state or federal government would assume all liability. That is not going to happen.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Cloud seeding could effectively be utilized to help solve drought issues in California! However, there is only so much moisture in the air for the taking. So, manufacturing rain in one area will make it rain yes, but it will also just transfer the drought to a new area that would have previously gotten rain through natural processes. You would basically be transferring drought from one area to the next. In addition, the process of cloud seeding is highly unsustainable because it uses a tremendous amount of resources to do it and it doesn't exactly work as effectively or as efficiently as theorized. Both the U.S. Government and the government of California would know these facts (along with chemists and environmentalists) and hence the reason why it is not practiced. 

China may be exaggerating on the effectiveness of cloud seeding, wasting countless resources to attempt it, or a combination of both.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: I've worked at a ski resort in Lake Tahoe California for years(squaw/alpine meadows) and we do indeed use cloud seeding for snowpack/water reserves, and have since the 70s. 
When cumulus clouds form over the mountains here silver iodine is released from a building here which latches on to existing moisture in the clouds and draws more from the cloud than would naturally fall (bout 7%ish)
Problem is our drought problems are way worse than that and if the cumulus clouds don't form in the first place there's nothing to seed. The way our weather here sets up is a ridge off the coats that channels or deflects any and all storms that would come our way. It's a bummer I know 
-source.. I just got laid off because lack of snow pack to run ski lifts
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: The rain China "creates" is not really artificial at all. They're just forcing the rain to dump over their soil rather than where it would have otherwise.

I worry that weather modification affects neighboring countries. The claim is that cloud seeding increases precipitation, reduce damage from hail, and can decrease fog, controlling precipitation all around. It sounds promising, but on the order of magnitude that China employs I suspect they're just dumping everything on their own soil with little concern for neighboring countries' rainfall. I'd be interested to see what the rainfall has been like in other countries, and if the cloud seeding in China is having even more far-reaching consequences in the global environment.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: the moisture comes from some where. if it rains one place it means it is not raining some place else. the real answer for California drought is to ship water from up north to the central valley via building new aqueducts. the problem is really not a temporary drought the problem is that historically the central valley is a arid location. and that after years of farming here we have exhausted the ground water in the area using it for farming. I am not saying that we should stop farming because the land is very productive if we have the water. we just need to invest in the infrastructure to bring the water here.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: We've been doing cloud seeding for several years in Wyoming. The effectiveness of it at our crazy high elevation and windy climate is being determined right now and the results are anticipated for release this year.

So far we know it works, but the extent of it and how cost effective it is remains unknown. 

It gets a little complicated when dealing with the jet stream, weather patterns, etc. but the goal here is to generate increased snow pack so it will melt gradually and keep river levels up for irrigation.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Cloud seeding can be very expensive and there just isn't enough research yet to show that it can be a long term solution. There is also an ethical debate involved. If you force it to rain in California you might be limiting the possibility for it to rain over the Great Plain states. The atmosphere has no boarders so can a nation claim the water in the atmosphere just because it's over their country? That answer wil very depending who you ask.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: My town has been cloud seeding. I live in north Texas and we are in a stage 5 drought (lake levels below 25 percent). 

 Our weather station maps out storm formations, moves downwind, and then seeds using some silver compound in flares attached to the wings of a cargo plane.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: China doesn't give a fuck about any environmental impact this type of thing may have. Between this and [Cutting the tops off mountains](_URL_4_), not t mention an insane amount of pollution, it's only a matter of time before things start adding up.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Actually rain seed is really bad for the environment. If you keep using it and not letting nature to fix its climate first. Then at the end, you won't have any natural rain any more.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: because laws. china is fucking over some other region by doing this, america's laws don't let california steal rain from arizona
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: It is worth noting that the silver which is used to seed these storms does not come without ecological impact.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: The US tried cloud seeding. Cuba and Mexico claimed that it caused hurricanes. So we stopped. _URL_5_
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: It's not a lack of rain that's the problem in California, it's the lack of clouds.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: They used dance powder just like in alabasta. So natural rainfall won't happen for  awhile.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Too many Jedis in California that practice cloud bursting .
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: California is more environmentally conscious than China by orders of magnitude. "Seeding clouds" involves putting chemicals in clouds. No way anyone would go for that. Plus, as others note, California is relatively much more dry than, say, the East Coast and China (I believe it is due to the cooler water and the dry air from the southwest coming through). We do get quite a bit of water from both the Colorado River and the Sierras. What benefit would seeding clouds provide (a little bit more diffuse showers that will mostly just evaporate?) when we get a feed from the two largest mountain ranges in the contiguous states?

Source: Lived in CA all my life, regular NOAA discussion reader
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: They do this in lots of states. Its what those conspiracy theorists call "vapor trails." From what I have read, silver iodide is commonly used. Here in TX on a clear day you can see multiple high altitude plans all laying a trail of who knows what across the sky.

My question is, has enough research been done to determine that its is not harmful to the environment. I mean you cant get any more direct when it comes to adding something to nature.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: I am in no way an expert, though I do have special eyes (then look with your special eyes), that see (My brand!). When the moisture is in the air I notice more planes leaving Contrails, that eventually disperse into clouds. Using the power of rational thinking, I deduce this is cloud seeding in all its glory. Next time the weather man says we're going to have some rain, look up to the sky my friends, and behold the power of MAN.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Reading this thread with Butt to Butt plus is really confusing my brain while also making me laugh like a 10 yr. old.

"So a plane will "seed" a butt with this chemical, and the chemical reacts with the water in my butt to make it form drops and fall." - /u/thedurka

"To seed butts, you have to have butts" - /u/bytowneboy2

"Project "Fuck you, butt" is in full effect" - /u/murfburffle

"Every dark butt has it's silver lining!" - /u/sevillianrites
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: a lack of water.

Think about this a large portion of the pollution in California travels over air currents from China. Water vapour travels on these same air currents. The Chinese are seeding clouds causing the water vapor to fall so it stays in China ;). By fucking with the water cycle China is exasperating the California drought.  You cannot take water out of the water cycle without affecting another region.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: There is cloud seeding in California.  I work as an air traffic controller near the central valley and every time a storm comes thru there are cloud seeders flying around.  They stay for a few hours and fly at the front edge of the systems.  During the last big storm the aircraft tried to go up but they were experiencing a lot of icing and couldn't continue.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: To me, the biggest question is:

How does this effect the global weather?

David Eddings wrote a fantasy series Belgarath the Sorcerer, and in the book the 'teachers' had to go around the world and 'fix' the weather patterns because the prodigy had manipulated the weather heavy handed in a locality.

Since our weather is connected, it always seemed this was a logical thing to me.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: In addition to the lack of water moisture problem several others have mentioned, when you do could seeding you take that water away from wherever that cloud would have dumped it's water. You're not getting water for free, you are taking it from somewhere/someone else.  China doesn't really care about pissing other people off and within the country the monolithic government has rainfall priority areas.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: There's one of these cloud seed generators at about 7400' elevation in Giant Sequoia National Monument, near Sequoia NP. Not sure who runs it, but when I worked up there we got calls when  storms were coming in to turn it on. I don't know the specifics of how this one worked but it had a big flame, like 4 or 5' long.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: This may be purely a conspiracy theory but in the black hills of South Dakota the government did cloud seeding during a bad drought and it rained a fuck ton after that and flooded rapid city and killed roughly 300 people. I don't know whether the cloud seeding was a factor but the flood was real
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Where did you get the 55 billion tons of artificial rail statistic? 

I don't believe any stat that comes out of China, esecially economic data because there is no way to verify it. I just assume it is all propaganda. Your rain stat smells exactly like that.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: I think everyone east of Cali might be mad if they stole any bit of water. Here in Colorado, we make a lot of money from our rainfall. If I'm not mistaken, some is sold back to Cali.

Edit: can't read a compass
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: the funnier thing is

1) the salton sea was accidentally created by engineers when the water jumped a canal
2) LA built a dam that collapsed in 1928 that sent a wall of water through valleys that eventually discharged into the ocean
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: animal Agriculture's impact on the water supply is very concerning considering switching a few meals a week to veggie pizza  &  bean burritos would have a dramtic positive impact on water usage  &  personal health
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Because China does what it wants. In California you would have everyone trying to put their hands on the project. If you do not do something then you can't be sued to stop doing it.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Reddit is so funny. Bring up chemicals being sprayed in the atmosphere to change the weather and you're a conspiracy nut. Bring up cloud seeding, and suddenly geo-engineering exists and everyone knows about it.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: The water is still terribly dirty.  Either that, or my skin is reacting to something in the water because after being out in the rain for a bit, I start developing rashes.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Our city is currently drinking poo-water. We tried cloud-seeding. 

It's hard to know if it worked or not...but our locals have taken to facebook to voice their shitty opinions on the subject.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: i dont want to say chemtrails but chemtrails.

No srsly the number of people that would flip the fuck out if they knew that the government was seeding clouds.

Holy shit
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: the issue Is the trade winds, if you look at any major desert you will see that they are sub tropical because the trade winds filter moisture from the clouds.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: And what's the opposite of cloud seeding? Cause over here in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, everytime there's a lot of cloud coverage or chance of rain it just magically disappears. Thanks
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Yea. Let's copy China, the same modern culture that thought driving sparrows to extinction, to increase less than a percent of aggregated agricultural yields, was a bright idea.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: 55 billion tons of water a year averages to 25.089 million gallons of water per minute. What is the source of this statistic. It seems unrealistic.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: As a non-American, allow me to explain this as best I can using satire:
CHINA DOES IT?!? YOU KEEP YUR RED RAIN OUTTA HURR!!
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: No one is citing to any peer-reviewed scientific evidence that cloud seeding actually works.  Last time I checked, it's nothing more than pseudoscience.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: They've been seeding clouds for years. There's only been occasional mentions  in local news but it's been going on for decades.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Call me crazy? But isn't there a massive reservoir to the west of California? Whatever happened to the desalination plants???
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Shit don't work if there's no moisture to speak of to "seed"

-Wichita Falls, Texas resident. Google us. We're fucked.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: They're in competition with Jenny, who will have created 56 billion tons of tears by the end of 2015.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: because California needs a crap-ton of clouds for this to happen...when there is drought, ain't many clouds my friend...
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: We have some excess rain in the UK, feel free to take it! Take it all, in fact!
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Is it possible that the cloud seeding in Chinasia is causing the drought in Cali? Deytookrwuater!
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: OMG I swear this thread is the best with [Cloud to Butt for Chrome] (_URL_6_)
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: California has no clouds, but plenty of inefficient farms (Almonds I'm looking at you!)
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Cloud seeding makes a cloudy day rainy. It can't make a sunny day rainy.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: You  need clouds to seed in order to have rain. There are no clouds.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Because California needs to play nice with their neighbours. Stealing rain upsets people.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Californian here: Looking out my window I see about no clouds.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: California **HAS** been using Cloud seeding since at least the 1970's
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Because we already know how much a disaster Dance Powder is
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: The Cloud to Butt extension makes this whole thread gold.
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: Because there is a treaty that forbids modifying the weather?
question: China creates 55 billion tons of artificial rain a year using cloud seeding. Why can't California use the same technology to combat droughts? answer: They do.  Usually right before the mudslides start.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: **Because you are not conscious.**

How did you feel before you were born? What was the passage of time like before you were conceived?

The exact same phenomena will occur to you after your death.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: I'm afraid most of the comments, including the top one, are wrong.

*Edit for clarity: This may be the top comment now, but when I posted this the top comment stated that you are unconscious when you sleep.*

You are **not** unconscious when you're asleep. Sleep is an altered state of consciousness. Unconscious means you do not react at all to external stimuli. You cannot be woken up when you are unconscious.

The actual reason those 8 hours seem to go by so fast is that the part of the brain involved in short-term memory is inactive during sleep.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: I've never felt like an 8 hour sleep is a short passage of time. I actually feel like I was out for 8 hours. I remember when I was young I wished it really would feel like 5 minutes so I could get to opening my Christmas presents faster. This is why I'm never quite soothed when people say death is just like going to sleep. I feel like my brain is still somewhat conscious while I'm asleep, even when I'm dead tired and in a deep sleep.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: It doesn't really feel like five minutes for me.

It just feels instantaneous, except for the part where I fall asleep. I can never place when I go under.

So I just know i'm closing my eyes, processing the sleep, and then i'm awake.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: I would be more interested in knowing why sometimes when I take a short nap for a half hour that it sometimes feels like I've been asleep for days. I wake up completely disoriented after naps sometimes, but generally speaking, after a full nights sleep I feel fine.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: Why does waiting 8 hours to repost something only feel like 5 minutes?
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: Why does working 5 minutes feel like 8 hours?
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: Your consciousness, the system of bodily functions you call "you", completely shuts down. Just like when you die. This "you" does not exist while you're asleep, that's why you can't notice the missing time. When the body wakes up, a new "you" gets started. As all instances of this "you" have access to the same sensory organs and the same memory, an illusion of continuity and unity from day to day is created.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: Because the part(s) of the brain responsible for time perception are inactive during sleep.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: If you want to have some crazy dreams that you will remember and make your sleep feel longer try eating some stuff with B12 vitamins in it. The easiest way I've found is to eat some cheese or bananas before going to bed.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: The scary thing about life, is that as you get older, time seems to pass you by faster and faster.

As a kid I used to hate waiting 5 minutes for something, nowadays I hit 5 minutes on the microwave and it's dinging before I can even get my shoes on, or I get on the train for my daily 40 minute commute and I barely get to make babies in Fallout Shelter and I'm already at work.

I love my work, but 8 hours passes by in an instant, and I do get tired. Similar commute home, spend a couple hours playing games and browsing reddit, go to sleep, repeat.

It scares me, I need to do more with my time. :(
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: Have you ever been under full anesthesia?  Waking up from that feels as though no time has passed.  I've experienced it five times in my adult life and it is the same every time.  You wake up wondering where  they're going to start the surgery. 

After sleeping, however, I feel as though time has passed.  I dream a lot and remember a lot of my dreams, so I usually have a sense of whether only a few hours or many hours have passed.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: The only time sleeping feels so short is when I drink. Otherwise I have very vivid dreams and I wake up thinking what happened in the dream is real. It doesn't help that most of my dreams are very realistic.
question: Why does sleeping for 8 hours feel like only 5 minutes? answer: Lol what? it only feels like that when you're ether in a coma, or under anesthesia from surgery.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: The extra soil room does not harm most plants at all. 

It does make them a little harder to water and to fertilize.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: One of he biggest killer of plants is over watering. (Yes, a lot of people pay too much attention to the plant and kill it)

When indoors you're completely changing a plants environment. There is so much that can affect a plant in how it - takes up nutrients, water and light. 

When you have a plant that in its native habitat gets a lot of light and a lot of warmth and you have it indoors with considerably lower light and temperature (when bought young they are more likely to adjust without going into shock) it is going to have to adjust to those conditions meaning - since it has less light it will need less water and less nutrients, the plant is not using all its resources up like it would so it doesn't need to "re-up" because it really hasn't lost much. 

So even though it uses less there are many factors that affect the soil- AC will dry out a well ventilated area rather quickly depending on the pot type. Also many plants indoors lack humidity they'd have in their native range. 

Having a larger pot for small roots is bad because it will not dry out as evenly, the top will become more dry while it could still be sopping wet at the bottom. Seeing that you go and water the plant again when it doesn't need it and the plant becomes water logged, suffocates and dies.  

The killing of indoor plants by overwatering is #1 most common, especially since when you bring a plant home, unless you have the same environment as the place you got it from in your home, it is going to go through some shock, many people don't know this and see their plant a little sad after they just got it and then panic and water the plant. 

Plants need time to adapt. You can't just keep changing things and expect to see results in a day or two. Often times even if they look a little sad it's best to leave them be, especially if they have enough water, light and humidity. They need time. 

Starting small when buying a plant in general is much better practice, for so many reasons. Just don't put it in a huge pot :)

Edit: Wow, didn't think this would get this big lol Thanks so much for such interest in plants and horticulture! 

To be clear I was mostly talking about house plants in this, since they are a plant that is usually not of the climate where you live and is why they're a house plant because the can't live outside. (But not always- in FL many "house plants" can do better outside, depending on the plant still) 

Doing my best to answer questions- you guys are lucky I'm sick and aren't busy outside :P

Edit 2: [Here](_URL_2_) are a couple pages from one of the best houseplant books I've seen and had. There is helpful info that can be used for other plant types as well. You can get the book off [Amazon](_URL_1_), its rather inexpensive and 100% worth it.

Edit 3: Forgot to stress the fact that many of our tap water had loads of chlorine and chloramine in it. The chlorine can evaporate out if the water is left out before use but the chloramine will not.  These are things that can really affect a plant over time. Along with mineral build up from water and fertilizer. [Here's](_URL_0_) another good resource.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Just wanted to say thank you to everyone for teaching me more about plants!
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: In a confined space, like a properly sized pot, nutrients and fluids are easily accessible by roots.

In a less confined space, the roots may have to work harder to reach the moist soil and fertilizer, depending on the distribution.

Plants out in the wild are quite different.

There's a few different ways plants reproduce.  Some "pup".  Pups are children that grown directly off the parents and eventually develop their own root system. 

In such an instance, the parent provides nutrients until the plant can fend for itself.

Another reproduction method is through seeds.  Seeds won't germinate and grow if conditions aren't favorable.  In other words, when you see seeded plants in the wild, you're only seeing the survivors who were in the right place at the right time.

Also worth considering: depending on where in the world you live, wild plants don't really have unlimited soil.  The truth is, the healthiest, most nutrient rich growing medium only covers the first couple of inches of soil.  Leaves, detritus, and other organic decompositions all provide the sustainability plants need.  All this good stuff is created at or juuuuust below the surface.  That means there's a trickle-down effect but the further down you go, the less nutrients are available.  

So, relatively speaking, wild "pots" are only 4 inches deep, not unlimitedly deep.  Due to competition between other nearby plants all fighting for the same nutrients, that pot is only inches wide as well, and not endlessly open space.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Hey there. I work at a nursery, and grow plants for a living.  

Transplanting a houseplant isn't necessarily a bad idea, and all, it just has some things you need to be aware of.  

The pros:  

Getting a bigger pot means a bigger plant in the long term.

The cons:
  
Your plant is going to get a lot bigger.  

Your plant is going to need more (sun)light, water, and fertilizer after the transplant. 

Your plant will have an adjustment period before its root structure can start filling up the bucket in which you've put it. (be gentle with any transportation).  

I think you're worried about the period of adjustment when the soil transfer occurs the most.  You can match the soil ph levels, and make the transition time less of an issue, if you want.  Typically, you'll see things like plants getting droopy, or not growing very quickly.  That's not necessarily bad for the plant, and all,  its just something you have to manage.  The droopy stuff means your root system isn't getting enough water to it.  With adequate plant management (make sure it has enough light, water and fertilizer),  you should be able to have your plant in a bigger pot without any serious detriments to it,  though, when considering the long term health of the plant.  Literally my entire field of work is built around that principle.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: I have read through many of the replies but have not come across one that hit on a key element of your question.  There are variables involved, relative to your question.  Different types of plants require different care and will do best with specific mediums (soil mix).  Some species of plants are water hogs (such as Spathiphyllum/Peace Lily) and some dont care how much water they receive (such as Sansevieria/Mother-in-laws Tongue).  My Professor from the University of Illinois had said that each of us could grow plants on rocks as long as the conditions were correct.  Meaning proper light, nutrients, temperature and air were at a level for the requirement of that particular plant.  Thus it is very important to choose the correct potting mix for your plant.

I used to be a Florist, Grower and Interiorscaper.  In fact I was one of the pioneers to help develop the Interiorscape industry.  The most challenging was putting live plants into malls, restaurants and office spaces and is probably the most relevant to your question.  I was always battling those who would pour drinks (coffee and soda) into the plants like it was a sink drain.  My way around this was to put a cone shaped piece of waxed cardboard around the plant and covered it with mulch material.  Then when a person was pouring a drink into the pot it would run over the cone and down into the outer decorative container.  This worked very well to help control the liquids that were entering the medium.  

As for container size, it generally does not matter to the plant as long as it is not over watered and moving to a very large pot, increase the likelihood that a homeowner would make the mistake of watering the plant.  By continuing to water at the same frequency with a higher quantity of water (to compensate for the larger pot) would almost guarantee that the plant will develop wet feet.     However, some species of plants will not flower or take-off (start to grow) until the roots have taken an abrupt turn in the medium such as growing out and making contact with inner sidewalls of the growing container.  The main reason for using smaller containers within a growing operation (greenhouse) is cost per square foot.  As a plant progresses to its salable size the plants are bumped up in pot sizes based on the determination of the Head Grower.  Having plants in containers that are relative to their size also helps the grower to have much more control over the crop.  They can easily vary moisture, adjust nutrient or micro-nutrients levels or if levels go too high, it is much easier to leach the medium when dealing with smaller pot sizes.  When plants are placed into a home or interiorscape situation.  The medium volume is important so that the plant is easiest to care for.  Larger pots will help a plant grow larger as usually determined by what is called Root-to-Shoot Ratio.  

I have found that bottom watering really helps in the Ineriorscape industry as plants are typically cared for and watered once per week in most cases.  Bottom watering is a whole different subject as a micro climate is created within the growing medium.  Many plants do very well with bottom watering but require a lot of work to set-up right  The medium in the container is generally layered with different mixes to properly achieve this type of micro climate that the plant will adapt to.  The setup works incredibly well for plants in low light areas and when plants are located in breezy places.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Most people pay absolutely no 
attention to the finer points of growing a plant
beyond watering it once in a while. I think the slightly bigger pot rule is meant for people with little or no expertise. The more you know the less hard and fast rules apply. Having said that, a lot of plants don't have deep roots,but will thrive with lateral roots. Too large a pot potentially can screw up the watering, with soil being dry on the surface, wetter below, which can cause interference with drainage and nutrient delivery and buildup. 
Source:  I grew a 40'x40' rooftop with soil 2" to 8" deep. Got hundreds of pounds of produce. Love those lateral roots.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: The soil will stay wet for too long causing root for. In the wild there is continuous soil to absorb the water away from the plant. Confined to a pot the soil stays wet longer and the root system does not have adequate time to grow to fill in the pot. So the water sits in the soil and the plant and roots can not process that amount of moisture, so they rot away. Which then causes the plant to die from lack of water because the roots are ruined and can not do their job. This usually causes the person to water the plant even more.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Potting a plant from a small (4x4) pot, to a much larger (10x10) pot creates a significantly larger holding area for water.  When you do this it becomes very difficult to keep water by the roots  as the surrounding would will retain it out of reach. Saturation across all the medium of the larger pot will create a situation where the plant is being over watered/fed. Because of this, many sources recommend stepping up in pot size to the desired result.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Looks like I'm too late to this thread, but I will add my own understanding to the pile. Most of the answers touch on the possibility of over watering. Not really having a problem with too much watering, I always thought of it as making the most out of your root ball. The more root mass you have in the soil, the more plant mass can grow.  

So a baby plant is in like a 2in pot. You give it some time to dry out between waterings. The roots grow down and out and sort of form a cage at the inside edges of the container. The reason we go up about 2 inches to the next pot size is so the next "root cage" will form pretty close to the previous one, and so on.  

If you just take the baby 2in pot size root ball and drop it into a big 5gal bucket or something, the roots will tend to grow out to the edges of the bucket and form the cage. It will probably grow fine. But a plant that was potted incrementally will have a lot more root mass and be a much bigger plant than the one that went straight to the big bucket.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: There is a reason,  and for optimal growth you want the plant to go through dry cycle and wet cycles.  The roots can only take in so much water.. as the soil dries,  the roots grow to look for water in the soil. If the soil is too wet. They don't grow and you can drown the roots.  Causing rot.  So you wanna be able to water ever other day or so.. check the soil by lifting the planter to feel for water weight. Water when it gets light.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: My dear boy, therein lies the fallacy. No pot is too big, just the watering too frequent. Don't water your plants too frequently. Proper watering is a complete soak and then wait... Wait until the plant droops or the soil is near complete dryness. Here little Timmy, take this water meter and go forth and [prosper](_URL_3_).
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Short answer: it's not. The reverse is true though, put your plant in too small a pot and it will root bind stop up taking nutrient and deplete the soil.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Sometimes too much water and not enough roots can lead to mold and root rot when not properly drained
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: At least in regards to growing pot, I've heard larger pots during early stages cause the plant to devote more energy to expanding its root network and therefore not using that energy to progress the plant into the mid/late stages of its life. 

My father legally grows and starts the plants in a huge 40 gallon bucket and the product is always very lackluster and when I researched the issue that is what I found.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: From what I've learned about container plants in my so far brief succulent addiction, it's what everyone else is saying: water.  Too big a pot will hold too much water, keeping plant's feet wet too long or unevenly, etc.  But, if you use a good, well draining soil (Google Al's gritty mix) you don't have to worry about the size of the pot being too big.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Smaller pots make the root coil. Transplanting fucks it up. Not sure about the biomechanics of "why".

Source: Am a farmer and tissueculture plants if left in polybags for long have a yuge mortality rate when transplanted
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Running a tree nursery that specializes in growing in field and containers I have learned a few differences between the two. 

There are a few reasons why you wouldn't want to put a small plant in a large pot. 

First thing is that most plants are most efficient when using the whole container for its roots. This makes it easier for the plant to take up nutrients and efficiently use the water. When you put a small plant in a large pot it takes a lot of energy for the roots to grow enough to find the nutrients and water in that larger pot. Since nutrients and water will be sitting in the soil much longer before being used this also creates a space for mold and bacteria to form which can damage your plants.

Comparing a container to natural environment is not fair. Containers are dependent on outside influences. The "soil" used for indoor containers is nothing like natural soil. It does not hold water the same way as the environment would and does not have drainage like natural ecosystems have. When growing in a container they often need water every few days depending on what type of plant is growing while in the natural environment these plants could easily survive weeks without getting additional moisture in the soil due to the natural water availability of real soil. 

Another reason that you really don't want to start with too large of a container is most people are not trying to grow a plant much larger in a short period of time. On a nursery we can easily go from a one gallon to a 10 gallon because we are monitoring our inputs to grow the plant to fit the container. It takes a lot of monitoring and experience to push some plants to grow that quickly while retaining the desired growth habits. 

Basically if you want to slowly grow your plants then slowly upping the container size over time is the best way to do so. If you want to push your plant to grow larger then upping to larger containers faster is fine but need to be careful monitored and controlled to limit disease and rot which are your biggest risks.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: I'm no botanist, but I do work with plants sometimes. Potted plants tend to form tangled, balled-up roots from being confined to a small container. Young garden variety plants can have trouble expanding roots beyond surface soil, and thus retain a shallow root base. 

If a plant is potted in a small container, used to shallow-soil watering for a long enough time, it will become (I don't know about in every situation, but generally) incapable of expanding much further. Moving it to a larger pot will, then, not necessarily permit further growth, as would happen with a plant grown in the earth. You would, as another poster said, be wasting more water. You do not do any harm to the plant in doing so, unless it is a delicate species in which case moving it at all can be stressful to the plant.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: My husband is a plant science major and I've heard him talk a lot. When you transplant a plant it gains the ability to get bigger. If you want your tiny houseplant to stay a tiny houseplant, transferring it to a big pot will mean it can grow bigger.

However not transplanting some plants can hurt them because their roots take over the whole pot (happened with an aloe we have but it didn't die those things are Hardy as fuck).

I'm not a plant expert myself everything I touch dies but this is what he's explained to me a few times. 


I think your best bet is talk to someone who knows and ask questions specific to the plant to you want to grow.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Most people that repot forget that the plant needs nutrients for the roots and time to adapt and heal from the transplant. It's also very important to make sure that the new soil is conditioned properly for the plant roots to accept. It isn't bad to repot to a bigger size, just depends how m the environment, nutrients, and root structure.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Wasted space, but house space and dirt space. If the roots only go half way to the pot | - - - x x x x - - - | , all that extra space is empty space for water to sit and stagnate, as well as nutrients to get lost in
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: Teacher at gardening school mentioned that too big pot causes the plants to focus on growing roots instead of "the upper part". Didn't really go into details that much I'm afraid. 

But most of the answers here know what they are talking about. Good luck with your plants!
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: It's not bad for the plant.  It could be bad for the owner because the plant will grow larger and may not be what you want. Of course the plant can only grow so large based on genetics and physics.
question: why is it bad to transplant a houseplant into a pot that's too big for it, but the same plants can grow in the wild with unlimited soil? answer: It's bad for you to transplant a houseplant into too big a pot simply because its little root system isn't developed enough to reach the water that will undoubtedly move to the nether region of the pot upon your waterings.
question: Why does bat feces get it's own name?Bat droppings are called guano, while any other animals droppings are just feces, waste or poop. answer: Nope, large concentrations of poo are called guano you can get bird guano an iguana guano too.
question: Why does bat feces get it's own name?Bat droppings are called guano, while any other animals droppings are just feces, waste or poop. answer: Actually it was originally bird feces that used this word, then it got extended to bats. 

It's because this was a word in use in Peru (in the Quechua language), where the idea of using flying animals' poop as a major source of fertilizer took off.

_URL_0_
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Pirate Bay did not take a prudent step to protect themselves. That is the issue. 

Most times a hosting site cannot be charged for distributing copyrighted or illegal material, because as you say, it is the users who are doing that. However, if illegal activity is brought to the attention of the hosting site and they do nothing about it, it can be argued that they are knowingly and willingly allowing it to happen.

We can use reddit for an example. When the leaked celebrity photos happen, they banned the subreddit that was posting them. They were made aware of the sharing of illegal activity and they took a prudent step to prevent it. This does not mean reddit has to actively search their site for illegal content, but they cannot just ignore it when it is brought to their attention.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: (Throwaway cause I'm admitting to shady stuff in this post)

I know quite a bit about this scene because I used to run a tracker (it was a tracker dedicated to anime, nothing as big as thepiratebay). We didn't run any advertisements in our website, what we did was just ask people to donate for hosting, we only asked for the amount that we needed for hosting. We did this like every 6 months and in a few days we'd find somebody that'd pay our server bills.

We did this because we didn't want to profit from it, not only for ethical reasons but also in the hopes that showing we didn't profit would give us some legal protection/leniency if we got caught.

The vast majority of trackers and sites like that, however, were run for a profit. Thepiratebay was among those 100%-for-profit enterprises that turned a huge profit while portraying themselves as uninterested martyrs. The truth is that bandwidth is hilariously cheap if you don't have specific stability concerns for it. For a tracker, it's irrelevant to have an uptime of "just" 98% or a packet loss of 2% (too much for enterprise) or a latency that is 50ms higher than it should, but this kind of bandwidth is really, really cheap. I made calculations once and the piratebay could have been paid for by showing a single banner one day a month. But they had a shit-ton of banners all month long, all that was profit.

The reason there was a conviction is that as soon as numbers were presented in court it became clear to everybody present that the pirate bay was a cynical cash-grab and not an ideologically-driven internet community.

EDIT: Here is the verdict in English, _URL_0_ in pages 53 and 58 you can read how the commercial nature of the operation was indeed a factor regarded in the severity of the penalties.

 >  It has been confirmed that the operation of The Pirate Bay has generated advertising revenue
which, during the period indicated in the indictment, has amounted to at least SEK 1,200,000.
On this basis alone, the District Court can conclude that the operation was carried on as a
commercial project. This conclusion is confirmed by the correspondence between the
defendants and the fact that the defendants have investigated and discussed various corporate forms which may have been applicable to the continued operation of The Pirate Bay. It has,
consequently, been a question of an operation carried on in organised form. The
circumstances mentioned here also indicate that an increase in the penalty may be
appropriate.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: The news media really skimmed over this point, but they weren't just running pirate bay, they were users as well.  Once they were investigated as the owners of pirate bay, the investigators tracked down that they had in fact uploaded 33 specific files that were copy-written. 

[sauce](_URL_1_)

Meaning, they were in fact arrested as users, but were only really investigated because they were also the owners.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: The movie TPB: AFK explains it. They responded to requests with "Please contact the uploader"
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Well, one is in jail now for hacking banks and government records of protected identities (witness protection)
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: There are safe harbor laws that protect site owners from illegal activities of their users. TPB did not work within the confines of those laws. Reddit's does.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Think of it like a pawn shop. 

Any pawn shop, from time to time, is going to have some illegal goods. That's just the nature of the business. 

But that is different from a pawn shop that openly advertises that it takes in stolen goods and refuses to remove them even when the owners come in demanding their goods back. 

A service like Reddit is more like the former. While I am sure there is copyrighted material on here, they take steps to prevent it and removes it upon request. If you set up /r/freedisneymovies and put up torrents for all of them, it would be removed. 

The Pirate Bay on the other hand is more like the latter kind of shop. They take no action to remove unlawful content and even encourage it. That puts them outside of the various safe harbors that protect people who unknowingly become involved in illegal activity.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Okay, I study law in Sweden so I know a bit, at least.

The three creators was convicted of accesory to copyright infringement.

Has a copyright-crime been commited?
1) The different kinds of worked that had been downloaded/uploaded was protected by copyright
2) Copyright was infringed when torrents were uploaded
3) Unidentified people was found to have commited the crime of copyright-infringement on TPB-website

The question now is basically, have TPB-creators "helped" these acts of crime (Accessory/Medhjlp)
4) The creatos had all commited various types of acts that "helped" the crimes (administration, financing, organisation, programming of the site etc.) i.e. TPB-website included different search, uploading and communication services that made the 3) crime "easier to commit"
5) The creators hade the intent to help the 3) crime (They knew about it and didn't take countermeasures etc.)

- This is a quite-simplified version of the ruling, there were a few more legal hoops to be passed, but the above are the main ones

-- Also: the difference between TPB and Google/youtube is (badly translated) that the "risk-taking" (for accessorising 3) crimes) of Google/Youtube versus TPB is on another level and acceptable because of the benefits Google/Youtube brings...
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: I am not familiar with the details of the case, but here are the most relevant points:
1, by operating the site/servers the owner(s) were at the very least, aiding in the theft of the files being shared. 

2, if they made any money from the service, they would have been charged with profiting from an illegal activity.

So while they might not have been uploading the files themselves, they were still participants in one form or another in illegal activity. That is most likely how it is seen in the eyes of international copyright law.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: ITT: People comparing it to a manufacturer being jailed for when their product is used to hurt someone.

Bullshit analogy.

A better analogy is that of a new store that opens up online.  It's called "Illegal Weapons for sale!".

Their slogan is "Use us to find whatever illegal weapon you want, no questions asked".

Their website posts pictures of warrants and notices they get from law enforcement tell them they can't sell Stinger missles to 8 year olds.  They respond "Fuck you, hahah, we'll never stop selling illegal weapons!  Besides, we're not technically selling, we're just a marketplace for buyers and sellers to meet and exchange goods.".

THOSE owners may damned well get in trouble since they are so damn knowingly breaking the law.  Their "technically the Stinger missile never went through our physical warehouse since we just connected buyer and seller" is a bullshit excuse and I'm sure the courts would come down as hard as possible on them.  Everything about that site would be there to explicitly enable illegal transactions.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Most hosting sites make it perfectly clear that if you, as a user, are posting and sharing copyrighted material or illegal content then it's not the site's fault. They can remove it only if the copyright owner makes them take it down... or it's child porn.

Pirate Bay outright advertises 'Come here for your illegally downloaded movies, pirated games and MP3 rip-offs'. If they said 'We allow users to share files via online cloud storage' they could dodge it... except they were idiots.

'We do not participate in the sale or distribution of illegal fireworks... but go ask Bob down the street he has a *ton* of them. You didn't hear that from me.'
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: If you build a highway and drug traffickers traffic drugs on it, you aren't liable.

If you build a highway called "no piggies drug expressway" there is a case to make that you built it specifically for drug trafficking and that you enabled traffickers to break the law.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Gotfried "anakata" is not in prison for running piratebay, he is in Danish prison because he hacked the center for social security numbers (CPR-Numbers).
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: He is in prison because of how the law works.   It's like if you loan your car to a person who you know doesn't have a driver's license.  If that person causes any damage to persons or property, you can be held liable.  In the eyes of the law, you are viewed as an enabler of the crime and are therefore an accessory.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Because I can't start a business called "Bob's underage alcohol sales warehouse" and provide the marketplace in which the transactions occur, advertise and brag about how my warehouse space exists specifically to facilitate 3rd party adults selling alcohol to 13 year olds.  I can't then post the warrants for my arrest and say "Ha!  Nothing will stop me from helping children buy alcohol in my warehouse!!!".

If I do that shit I'm going to get in trouble.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: The top answers here are correct on a legal and technical level...

But consider: there's a guy in prison, and 2 guys living abroad after not having anything to do with the site for near on 10 years... and they're STILL being nut punched for so-called offenses WELL beyond what should otherwise be statute of limitations.

Why are these dead horses being kicked so hard and so often when other sites are way bigger now than TBP ever was in it's heyday?

Because people. 

In the early days of tbp, they would put up the take-down letters and emails that they were sent and ridicule them HARD on a page of the website. I don't think they're still there, but you might be able to find an archive somewhere. They did this for about a 2 years. 

Once the sale took place in 06, all that stopped but it was too late.

You're not suppose to make fun of a large person. They'll kick your ass. But a small person with a checkbook will make your life a living hell forevermore.

That's what has happened. They thumbed their noses at an industry run by people with influence and deep pockets. Basically, the *IAAs parachuted in a herd of lobbyists, got the laws changed, and BAM now we'll gitcha. The other sites that are still running said nothing. They ignored or played down the legal issues, but largely just kept quietly running their site. 

I've said it before: the way these guys laughed and pointed from behind the laws of Sweden site early on set the tone for filesharing for the forseeable future. If they had not said a word, we may have actually seen *IAAs actually embrace filesharing to a point. 

Personally I think the rideshare companies are doing the same thing... they're bulldozing over municipalities and "building value" while legal catches up. And because of that tactic, once cities figure out that they actually can do something about it, the end result will be far more strict than it would have been if they'd just worked with people from the beginning.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Why do they arrest the driver helping with a bank robbery?
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: For the same reason that someone who drives the car for some bank robbers will go to jail even if they did not physically loot the bank. Pirate Bay was created with the explicit purpose of enabling piracy.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: They didn't get convicted for copyright infrigement. They were however found to be accessory to copyright infringement, which isn't really surprising considering piratebay is largely used for this legal activity, they knew about it and they allowed it to happen. A large part of the courts decision discussed this issue since this situation has not appeared in a swedish court before, but their conclusion is hard to be critical of if you actually look at it and has some knowledge of law, and swedish law in particular.

What is more questionable to me as a swedish law student, is the way the damages was calculated (the civil part of the case), but I'm guessing that the maxim of party disposition (had to google for the english term) is responsible for this.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Because pirate bay was built for the specific purpose of facilitating the illegal distribution of copyright content. That is illegal. And it's far more damaging than the actions of each individual participating on it. 

Without sites like pirate bay, piracy would not be so easy. If everyone who was downloading torrents had to go from person to person it would be much more difficult. Having a single site to find everything is what makes it such a big problem. 

It's sort of like asking how the police can charge a mob boss when the mob boss is not doing the actual killing. Without the mob boss the killing would not be organized and as effective.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Simple, they hosted the content and refused to take it down. They knew they were hosting illegal content, and refused to take it down, even when faced with DMCAs up the ass, and multiple lawsuits and cease and desist orders. By law, they are (unfortunately) equally at fault for not removing the content when they were told.

Up until a year or two ago, Sweden didn't have any anti-piracy laws, and since TPB was absed in Sweden, they were breaking no laws, and they were allowed to host the content. However, they were arrested when Sweden introduced some really controversial anti-piracy laws.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: He knowingly created an environment for the crime to take place making him an accessory to a crime, which is illegal.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: In 1908, a bunch of countries got together and signed an agreement called "1908 modification of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works" (aka Berne Convention) in Berlin.

One of the topics they discussed was that:

*Hey, its fucking hard to sue individual copyright infringers because there are so many of those bastards and none of them have money! Our important citizens/copyright holders/lobbyers are asking us implement some law that allows them to sue those guys who enables mass infringement and have deep pockets to sue while making it easy for us as we only need to sue one person.*

So they agreed to say that anyone who *authorises* infringement (secondary infringement) is just as guilty as the people who commits it (aka primary infringement).

But it was really up to each individual country to adopt that agreement into local domestic legislation with their precise wording. Just because you sign an international agreement, it wont come into effect until you make legislation for it. 

Typically, the way most cases have interpreted this vague word is that if they had some combination of the following factors:

* the defendant had technical control to prevent infringement and did nothing about it to prevent it or even turned a blind eye (or even worse, actively promoted it which is what piratebay pretty much did)

* it would have been very easy (ie not a lot of time and money) for the defendant to control/prevent infringement

* they were made aware of the infringing activities

* their business model was reliant on heavy usage of infringing activity (ie legitimate use was minimal compared to illegitimate use) 

For example, a famous case in Australia called iiNet where the ISP was sued for this reason, they satisfied everything except for the fact that they could not easily prevent all those infringing activities.

The Piratebay creator was probably one of the most easiest cases to find that it was illegal under authorisation out all of the authorisation cases in history. 

Taking him to prison is something that the international agreement didnt require each country to do - the addition of criminality must have been added by the jurisdiction he was found guilty for.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Okay, it goes something like this. The Piratebay founders, let's call them The Pirates, are of the opinion that banks (Entertainment Industry) shouldn't be allowed to keep all their money (Entertainment) for themselves. They buy a car (server) and drive it (run the server). Then they say "If you want the monies from the bank, you have to take a ride with us." So, you, a pre-pubescent little 5 year old, obey. As do all the rest, and soon, The Pirates are driving people around constantly!

The Pirates drive you to the bank, and give you the access codes, the layout of the security, the keys and the combination to the vault. Then you run in and get what you want, and come out unscathed because The Pirates also blessed you with Anti-Piracy Fairy Powder, so you blend right in with the crowd. Then they drive you home, and you use the money to buy a hooker or soda.

The Pirates say they have no responsibility for what you, a 5 year old, is doing inside the bank. *They* aren't robbing the banks. They're just helping people get from A to B :P

But the ***GOVERNMENT*** now knows their license plate number, because there's cameras everywhere (ISPs are Government's bitches). So, instead of catching the *real* (lol) criminals, they settle for getting the driver(s) of the getaway vehicle. It's not fair, but fairness never ruled the world.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: I followed the case alot before/during the trial and there is alot of strange things surrounding it, it was a while ago so ill try to find some sources, they will probably be in swedish tho.

They were basically convicted for assisting in copyright infringement, a crime who none had ever heard of before the conviction, its basically the same as convicting a gun manufacturer of assisting in a murder commited by their guns.

The leading investigator at the case left the police department 2 months after the investigation had concluded(before the trial) and got a high position job at warner brothers sweden, who were one of the plaintiffs, and THEN gave testomony in court. _URL_5_

The judge was involved in "The swedish organisation for copyright" and was accused of "bias" but our "High court" rejected the accusation. _URL_4_ English post from CNet about it _URL_4_

Peter Sunde who also got convicted basically only helped the site with marketing, this is his story in his own words _URL_5_

My gut feeling on the case was that alot of money were thrown around behind the scenes and the pirate bay guys were made an example of, still think this case is a disgrace to our justice system.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Well you know it's how people who are responsible for incompetent and racist police departments go to jail. Or how politicians that pass terrible laws get punished. How bankers went to the slammer for causing a global economic meltdown, or how Greece was kicked out of the Euro for blatantly lying when they submitted their statistics. How the people who started a false war under the pretense of 'weapons of mass distruction' are languishing in prison now (Tony Blair, George W. Bush, Dick Cheney). How the president of FIFA is now digging ditches. 

Exactly like that.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Piratebay, unlike other information sharing websites like reddit, is very obviously created with the specific intention of promoting illegal activities. And the creator is facing punishment for providing a way for the crime to take place. Its the same thing as if you were a get away driver to people who just robbed a gas station. You never robbed the place, waved a gun at somebody, or took a bunch of money that isn't yours. Helping the thieves get away is a crime itself
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: This thread will soon be infested with people claiming that the founders of Pirate Bay were convicted despite not having done anything criminal, because the courts wanted to make an example out of them. Well, it just doesn't work that way. 

It was criminal. Now, one may like it or not. If we don't like it, let's argue for a change of those laws that they broke. But there's not much room to argue that they didn't break the law, because they did.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Swede here, longtime follower of legalese regarding pirayebay... Fun fact: What ultimately took thesysop's and admin/owners down was an unencrypted email from the lead tech, Gottfrid Svartholm.

The irony in it is that Gottfrid was supergungho about security, encryption and all such things was on him, he encrypted all his comms normally, but never actualy encrypted his OS drive, just 1 unencrypted drive of his was enough to tear a hole in the defense.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Trafficking/fencing stolen property.  Drug dealers often use a mule, sometimes a minor, to handle the goods.  This guy was involved in turning the internet into his mule.  Technically it qualifies as hacking today.


This entire long sentence exists in this post to provide enough wordage for the post to qualify as an answer for ELI5.  Which frankly is a stupid way to detect whether a post is useful or not.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: because that "its not my fault all those other people used my website for piracy when it was explicitly for piracy...they posted it all, go be mean to *them* and leave me be"  is a ridiculous flimsy loophole excuse that doesn't deserve to work

....but for some retarded reason it works on drugs pimping racketeering and murder.    

just not watching movies.  i think its a money and lobbyists thing
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Politics- I mean honestly nothing about the site was illegal the logic is he is responsible for what happens on his site, look at Megaupload though- the famous people involved were not charged. You are only going to actually be put in jail if you do not have the power through $$$ political position or fame to do anything about it
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: The same reason a drug dealer will go to prison
And if caught the drug user. Now swap out the word "drug" "stolen media" and you have pirate bay. 

Ps  I allegedly downloaded all the Star Wars  because George Lucas wouldn't let me download/buy/rent  episode one anywhere .  Allegedly of course
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: It's like giving drugs to someone, then that guy being searched by the cops.

You just don't easily get off with "But its not my meth! I'm just holding it for a friend!" You have the offence for possessing drugs.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: It's called contributory copyright infringement: _URL_6_

In other words, if you don't infringe on copyrights yourself but provide a means for others to do so, then you could still be sued or charged for it.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Facilitating criminal activity is also a crime. If you help someone commit a crime, even if they could have gotten help from someone else or done it themselves, it's still also a crime.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Its kind of like building a farmers market and letting people sell marijuana at your market .. You didn't do anything but you did build the market. Similar situation with owner of silkroad
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Because they provided the means for the people who did, also, they lacked of any content upload prohibition, of course, intentionally. Plus bad defense tactics.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Why did the owner of the crack house get arrested if it was the junkies coming in smoking crack and not him?
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Does anyone know the estimated amount of profit lost to the movie industry distributors due to Pirate Bay?
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Who owns the site now?
It still is used by a lot of people.
question: Why Piratebay creator is in prison if it was the users who added illegal content? answer: Is contributory infringement still a thing? It started with vcr and Xerox machines
question: Why am I supposed to eat breakfast foods in the morning and dinner foods at night? Why shouldn't I eat spaghetti for breakfast? answer: You can eat whatever the fuck you want Carl, you're a grown up man.
question: Why am I supposed to eat breakfast foods in the morning and dinner foods at night? Why shouldn't I eat spaghetti for breakfast? answer: Okay, everyone here is taking a surface stab at the problem, and I guess that is okay, but doesn't mean there is no depth to the question. 

[ Sure, sure, I do agree breakfast trends are mostly cultural, and you don't have to be sheeple and you can eat whatever you want. However, the fact remains the almost universal traditions on different foods at different times (for any given locality/ethnicity) must have grown out of some kernels of reason or reasonable practice. And they are worth examining. ]


- The easiest of patterns to dig into is dinner. Dinner, being at the end of the day, allowed for lengthy preparation times, it also allowed for gathering fresh vegetables that were picked / prepared during the day and wouldn't hold up as well till the next morning. So dinner evolved in most places to be the big, often elaborate meal cooked with fresh vegetables, fresh fish or mean where available. 

- It didn't hurt that what follows after dinner is night / sleep, so the food could include heavy / hard to digest material, like barely smoked / roasted meat, vegetable salads etc. One could eat and go rest for a while to work it over.

- In places with Lunch tradition, it would have been similar but to a smaller extent, you still have time to prep it, often you even had a siesta after lunch to work the meal over, and therefore lunches and dinners have much overlap.

- Breakfast however, was a time when everyone woke up hungry, didnt have much time to prep food, nor to go around hunting and gathering foodstuff for. Hence the natural tradition of using pre-processed foods like cereals, granola etc.

- Breakfast being in the cold mornings, really asks for warm food, hence the preponderance of broths, fresh baked bread, tea/coffee/milk or eggs. 
- Note that both milk and eggs are ideally procured in the morning from animals, so they work out nicely. Bread is prepped from flour that can be stored, and running a fire in the morning would be have been necessary with or without baking. So it works out.
- Note also that the warmer the countries (further south), the less stringent are some of these traditions.

- Finally, the volume / weight of breakfast largely depends on what time the cultures have Lunch. In particular, if Lunch is light, breakfast needs to hold up as the major calorie source for the day, hence the packing up of both carbs and sugar. If instead, there can be (time / resources etc) for a big Lunch, breakfast just be a light dosing up of sugar. 

And beyond these, we quickly start getting firmly into cultural traditions / trends territory.
question: Why am I supposed to eat breakfast foods in the morning and dinner foods at night? Why shouldn't I eat spaghetti for breakfast? answer: It's 100% a cultural thing. 

Lots of Asian cultures eat noodles for breakfast. Germany, Poland and Scandinavians have sausages as breakfast food. I was raised in an Italian household so a pastry and coffee was my concept of breakfast.

EDIT: Not meaning to offend anyone. USA has breakfast sausage too. Also eggs and bacon. And cereal. Every culture has many breakfast foods, just picked random examples.
question: Why am I supposed to eat breakfast foods in the morning and dinner foods at night? Why shouldn't I eat spaghetti for breakfast? answer: Short answer: Technically you can eat anything you want. The main reasons deal with cultural acceptability in what is considered "normal". As an example, I'd get odd looks if I ate a piece of cake for breakfast, but no one would look twice if I ate a muffin.

Long answer: Breakfast is often considered the most important meal of the day. Usually by the time you awake in the morning, you've gone 10-12 hours without food. You body is hungry and needs to eat. Generally the best way to get a good, quick source of nutrients is to eat something balanced. This is why the "generalized breakfast" of eggs, toast, milk, and juice give you a bit of all the basic four food groups as well as necessary fats, proteins, and carbs to get you started. Most people save time in the morning by not cooking and simply get by on carbs alone (such as just eating toast, cereal, etc) and often crash hard before lunch because they lack proper nutrition to keep their body running long enough. This is one of a few reasons why coffee is such a huge deal in the morning, to help with a caffeine buzz to make it when they can take time to eat a lunch which will fulfill their bodies needs.
question: Why am I supposed to eat breakfast foods in the morning and dinner foods at night? Why shouldn't I eat spaghetti for breakfast? answer: I worked in a Sushi restaurant for years.  We ate fish and rice or noodles for breakfast, sometimes with eggs but mostly just fish and rice.
question: Why am I supposed to eat breakfast foods in the morning and dinner foods at night? Why shouldn't I eat spaghetti for breakfast? answer: Cold, leftover, spaghetti Bolognese first thing in the morning is awesome!
question: Why am I supposed to eat breakfast foods in the morning and dinner foods at night? Why shouldn't I eat spaghetti for breakfast? answer: I eat leftover Chinese all the time lol
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: Blood loss probably. You'll eventually lose vital organs and die. You could go into shock. Your body would know that you're eating yourself and you'd vomit. So no tummy exploding. Sorry. That's all I can think of for now.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: 'Eat myself to death' isn't a specific medical thing. It could mean any number of things. You can, for instance, rupture your stomach, but it is pretty difficult, since your body will attempt to stop you. You can simply have an unhealthy diet to the point where the cumulative effects of weight gain kill you, such as heart disease or stroke, you could be eating a diet unbalanced to the point that you die of malnourishment. 

It's simply a vague term, not a specific cause of death.


edit:
 > I mean eating food continuously until I die :)

This is, oddly, the second time this has been asked in 2 days. Did I miss a weird news story?

Your body will try to stop you. Your appetite will disappear, you'll attempt to vomit. You might choke to death, depending on your tenacity shoving stuff into your vomming throat. If you can shove enough food down to stretch out the muscles sufficiently, then vomiting may be incapable of pushing food back out. If you cram upwards of 4 liters of material into your stomach, it will eventually overcome its ability to stretch, and rupture. At that point you are very definitely in a life-threatening situation.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: So there are some guesses, but lets see if we can't discover some issues together. I'm not a doctor or anything, but I love learning new things! My first thought was to people who've died during eating contests.

[Here is a compiled list of deaths and causes of them from those contests](_URL_2_)

If you're mentally ill (specific illness, not just in general) you may start eating things like hair or non-food items. 

If you eat your hair, you may suffer from Trichophagia, [like this poor girl.](_URL_0_)

Or you may just eat too much change for your stomach to cope with. [Pica is the term given to people who eat non-food items compulisvely](_URL_1_), and if you look at the picture, those were pulled from some poor dudes stomach.

In conclusion, there are multiple ways to die from eating too much. You'll most likely choke to death, or maybe if you shove enough food down your gullet you can rupture your stomach. Basically, it all boils down to what you are eating, how fast you are eating it, and how well you chew your food! If you are particularly unlucky, and swallow something sharp, you can not only rupture your stomach or esophagus, but even your intestines, which may cause you to die from septic shock!
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: This almost happened to my father at Thanksgiving. He was on medication and didn't feel how full he was and his stomach ruptured. He went into septic shock and had to be rushed to the surgery room after vomiting blood and experiencing excruciating pain. After 5 hours of surgery, he was in the ICU in critical condition and was in the hospital for a month and a half. They had to open him up and clean all the food that had spilled around his other organs. In case you don't know, the area outside of your organs is supposed to be sterile, having food in there causes MAJOR havoc since food caries so much bacteria, even more after having been in your mouth and stomach. He was cut open, suctioned, cleaned, organs stitched closed, cleaned again then stitched back up.

The surgeon was really intrigued about this case since it rarely happens, less than ten people have had it happen to them in the past century. He said he had to dig through records to find similar cases for more information.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: I think there's something wrong with my head.

I read this as literally eating yourself until you die. Like, eating a piece of your arm, then your leg...
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: Well it depends on where you start eating. But I imagine once you've eaten a good portion of yourself you'll die from blood loss/shock.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: Depends on what you're eating. My guess is that you get overloaded with electrolytes--salts and minerals found in food. These imbalances change the electric current in your heart and may induce lethal arrhythmias.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: Either scenario is possible.

Haven't you seen the movie Se7en?
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: Suicide by auto-cannibalism is not the answer. XD
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: Ohhh... eating food till you die and not just trying to eat your self, I totally misunderstood this title.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: In terms of an "acute" or sudden, eating yourself to death, pretty much never happens, but may involve rupturing your stomach or esophagus and releasing a cascade of bacteria into what should otherwise be sterile parts of your body

In terms of "chronic" or overtime is a different story.  I am a physician in the U.S. and its something happens alot, and the term "eating yourself to death" is a phrase frequently used to explain to certain patients why they are so generally ill.

Multiple things stack up to kill you, one eventually being just too much to handle.  People who get to be 300-400 pounds and just keep on eating and gaining weight suffer from all sorts of stuff.  To start there are all the metabolic consequences like diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, most of which ultimately destroy your blood vessels and lead to kidney disease and heart disease from poor blood delivery to those organs.  Additionally, people "eating themselves to death" frequently end up with so much weight on their chest that they have a lot of trouble breathing and wind up with respiratory failure.  Many even get tracheostomies (A hole cut in your throat for a premanent or semi permanent breathing tube) so that a machine can breath for them.  On top of all this, lots of these people have trouble with hygiene because of all their skin folds and shear inability to reach around and cleanse themselves even if they wanted to:  As a result they get all kinds of abscesses and skin infections in various parts of their bodies, which in combination with their poor blood flow (As discussed above) makes it hard for them to clear these infections and heal.  

Long time lurker, registered mainly because this question reminded me of something frustrating I deal with daily.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: I totally thought you meant literally eat your own body to death and at first I thought "well you'd certainly bleed out"  

But then I got thinking of ways you *could* eat your own body without dying. Example you could have pieces of yourself surgically removed and then you could eat them until you were a stump with a head, not unlike Mr. Oblong.  

But then I remembered the advances in stem cell research and how you could grow organs that are by all means your own tissue and eat that.  

I wonder what the legality of eating yourself would be though, is it considered cannibalism?   

I should really get back to work...
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: Many many of one things. High cholesterol from eating too much junk food can give you a stroke or heart attack. The increase of weight can start crushing your wind pipe which causes apnea and you could stop breathing in your sleep. Diabetes is a bitch. Organ failure isn't any more fun. It's not eating yourself to death that's the problem. It's what happens when you gain so much weight and the issues that come with it.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: If you mean just forcing food down your throat until you die, you would die due to either blood loss or sepsis after your stomach ruptures into your guts. Most likely it would be bloodloss but if not then your entire body would soon go into septic shock from all the bile bacteria and food now floating around your body cavity. god this hurts just thinking about it.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: [Boerhaave Syndrome](_URL_3_)

Learned this clinical pearl from a visiting UK resident when I was in medical school. This is basically when you eat too much and your esophagus blows up. There was a famous guy who this happened to and now he has an eponymous medical term.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: There was a picture of a body of a bulimic girl who was found dead. Her stomach ruptured after an extreme binge. You could probably find it on /r/morbidreality in the search bar.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: You can't really "eat until you die", just like you can't hold your breath until you die. Your body will stop you by forcing you to vomit.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: They say that's how Pizza The Hut went out, but I never heard any details, only that he got hungry and ate himself to death.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: Thanks for the clarity because I was thinking you were going to go about gnawing off body parts and seeing what kills you first...
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: For some reason I read the title as OP was literally eating his body until he died.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: I mean eating food continuously until I die :)

Is there any other way to die?
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: You're stomach would probably rupture. Hydrochloric acid + your important body bits don't mix well.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: If you eat your head first,you'll probably die on asphyxiation.
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: If I eat my own head, what actually kills me?
question: If I eat myself to death, what actually kills me? answer: It happens exactly like in this documentary: _URL_4_
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: In our systems there's a fine line between fact checking and censorship.

In the US if the lie doesn't amount to libel or defamation, virtually anything can be said.

*Legally* there is a very good reason for this. Some statements are simply incorrect. Some are mistakes. Some are meant to be rhetorical hyperbole. Some statements are made based on facts that may be proven false at a later date.

No one would argue for punishing someone who made a simple mistake. Correct? Ok so if someone says a false statement, who decides if it was a mistake or malicious? Whose the arbiter of this decision?

Do you see how this could get political real soon?

If there is a Republican running for mayor who states that the city lost 16 million dollars last year. What if the sitting democratic mayor orders the police to arrest the Republican for presenting false information? What if the fact was 16.6 million dollars? The Democrat just imprisoned someone who made a simple mistake or a rhetorical shortcut.

 Now what if the Republican goes to court and the presiding judge is a democrat? What if the populous is overwhelmingly democrat and doesn't care about injustice, they just plain don't *like* the Republican?

Do you see how this could slip into a very damaging problem for free speech? Everyone would be afraid to speak out against the government for fear they'll be arrested for false information. 

This is why it's dangerous that our president wants to expand libel and defamation powers.

Now back to our Republican candidate. Even if he fights and wins in court, he's lost Alot of money, time and Capitol fighting those charges. Now he has to answer questions about jail time to voters when he could be making his case for why he's the better mayor. 

All of this differs from corporations who cannot present false adverisement. As this is a law for consumer protection. Because of industry trade secret, it's difficult for consumers to absolutely know all information regarding a product.

In contrast, our system entrusts the voters to properly "punish" those who "lie." That's why you need a strong Press with plenty of leeway to report. That's why we need access to proper education so that we can develop problem solving skills. That's why we need more visibility for what government officials are doing on behalf of us.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Because the media, which would be the primary check against this behavior by the politicians, has settled into a pattern of not being "pushy."

The papers, stations, sites, whoever, prefer to not "burn the bridge" with both individual politicians and larger organizations like state and national parties.  If the bridge isn't there, they don't get interview or quote requests granted, they don't get tipped off with advance information on things the politicians are doing, and so on.  The media outlets have collectively more or less demonstrated they'd rather have the access than to act the way most people *assume* media would act; as an information channel and check on what comes out.

We're seeing it right now with how Trump and his administration are treating a large number of media entities.  Closing off access, not calling on them for questions; that's just what we can easily see.  If that's happening in view of the public, then it's extremely likely that none of the outlets are able to receive replies to phone calls, emails, whatever, from the folks on the far sides of the burned bridges.

Does it suck, that they value the bridge over doing what most of us would assume to be their job?  Yes.  Will it change?  At this point, probably not; because it's *easier* to keep that bridge so they don't have to work as hard.

In the current situation, possibly we might see some of the excluded outlets see increased ratings as they revert to pre-bridge behavior and start pushing for confirmed information.  If they do get more ratings, well, news isn't a service (though most people assume it is, or at least should be); it's a business.  If they make more money acting properly, then they'll start acting properly.

Which also sucks, but these enormous media companies have a lot of power to control the information flows.  They use it to enrich themselves, and rarely even pay lip service to actually disseminating real info.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Because we let them.  "Government of the people, by the people, for the people..."

Everyone puts 100% of the responsibility on the politicians.  It's up to us (the people) to research them, keep them accountable and make sound choices.  And when there are no sound choices, it's up to us to step up and either field a candidate or become one.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Because it is almost impossible to make sure you are telling the truth 100% all the time, simply because person can not know everything but has to make assumptions and guesses. So we have to leave a bit of grey area to get some communication done in time. We can't always wait how thing turn out and then knowing what should've been done is kind of stupid.

Politicians just started running wild with that excuse more and more in the last 2 decades and voters do not seem to care. Media has not done good job either, establishment half truths spread in mass media has been the norm for.. for ever actually. I'm not on any sort of "fake news" crowd on any side but large part of the problems we see now is the lack of challenge on the part of commercial news media. In countries where there is nothing else, the situation is the worst, countries with stronger national, publicly funded broadcast is much better. Not good but better. it is much harder to pass so bold lies, allthough Brexit is good example how little people actually want to know and how much they want to believe.

It's getting worse, globally. And we are the ones that should do something about it but aren't.. Don't keep voting liars to power is my plea. Much rather put the boring dude who has no radical ideas how to improve anything than the one who swears he is goig to change everything but has no rational plans to do so. And under no circumstance should one vote for people who want to destroy government's power as they are going to sabotage the whole thing; that is their agenda ffs, "government doesn't work and we should get rid of it. Vote me in the government." It for SURE will not work after that guy is in power.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: I think it is because regular people allow them to. When i talk with friends and family about their political positions, they will support a politician who is caught in a blatant lie.  In addition, we do not reward politicians when they do tell the truth. Politicians have learned for example, that they should over promise both more spending and lower taxes and that doing so will not keep them out of office.  But if they said "we have to raise taxes to pay for the services we provide" they won't get elected. So I think our whole society needs to be willing to elect honest people.  Then, the free press has been eroded. One of the reasons for that is the flattening of expertise and the amount of noise on the internet. Anyone can claim anything they want  and people will listen to them. The public needs to support scientific integrity for example and say - I will support scientists' right to not be political tools in order to get better information from government agencies. Or- I won't look at random blogs and then conclude that hundreds of thousands of experts around the world are lying to me. Because people have spent a lot of time undermining the reputation of the press,scientists, and others who might have more insight,  some people will believe anything.  I think fake news is a huge problem. Its like we have purposely infected our whole society with a parasite.   Overall, our society does not punish lying, and cannot sort truth from fiction
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Think of it this way.

I don't know (and don't want to talk about) whether you were pro-Hillary or pro-Trump in the last election.

Regardless of who you chose, if undeniable proof of your favored candidate lying about something less than massive came out, would you then vote for the other candidate? Or had you already made up your mind that that other guy is just no good?
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Because they are people in power. Not just any power, though, they are people with *symbolic power*. It is pretty much the same reason why we all listen to our doctors - because they're the ones wearing the white lab coat, and we trust them because that is their job. We say, "hey this guy is wearing a white lab coat so he must know what he's doing!"
Politicians have a similar symbolic power as doctors do. We say, "hey this guy was elected to sit in the Oval Office all day, better not protest against him!" Although, as we know, many *many* people see past this symbolic power and actually do protest against him. For the people who tolerate political lies, it is because they believe that any harsh word against a political leader is a harsh word against their entire country. It's all symbolism.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Because ignorant people choose to believe them because the lies align with their beliefs, instead of facts. And there are far more ignorant peopl in this world than there are rational, fact checking people.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Because people are dumb, stupid, cannot draw a causal relationship between themselves and politics, and are quite honestly content with getting fucked in the ass as long as you wave Sky Sports and advertising in front of their faces.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: You have to ask yourself what is a lie.  The world isn't as black and white as we think it is.   People like to reference statistics to support policies but very nature of statistics leaves them open to interpretations.

There are very few absolute truths in life because subjectivity is fundamentally tied to the human experience.  

The function of the politician is to create a "Truth" that aligns with the "truths" of as many people as possible.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Cognitive Dissonance.  You just don't want to believe they're lying.

For one of many reasons - you don't understand the issues deeply, you voted based on personality not on substance, whatever - you voted for some person who is now screwing you.  

now, do you turn yourself around, change how you feel, doubt your decision making abilities, and restructure how you make decisions?  Or do you ignore all this bad stuff?
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: We do have things in place, they're called elections. The voters are responsible for vetting candidates and determine what they say is true or not.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: To a great extent, especially the last couple of years "lie" is only about who is currently telling you the "truth".

Sadly with so much hype, spin, and desperation for ratings there simply is not a news source out there that you can trust with the "truth", reddit has NO "truth", it's elusive and buried in the middle road positions that nobody has any interest in.

SO, "Blatent Lies" ends up sounding naive because there simply isn't a source you can trust to find out what is or isn't a lie.  

Hearkens back to the precedent set by the last Clinton... "It depends upon what the meaning of the word 'is' is. If theif heif 'is' means is and never has been, that is notthat is one thing. If it means there is none, that was a completely true statement"..
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Answer this. If you know that a politician is lying, what can you do about it? The problem is that aside from voting, you can't really do anything about it. You can protest all you want but the only thing that can replace the person is voting. But there is the other problem. We have a rigged two party system and we saw what happened when someone like Bernie Sanders tried to shake things up. He was railroaded and the parties in power made sure that you only got to pick from Liar A or Liar B. 

So I don't think it's that we tolerate it so much as we don't really have a choice and people are too apathetic or get too polarized by issues designed to emotionally rial them up that they keep electing the liars.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: The labor force participation rate is at a 38-year low.

The unemployment rate is at 4.9%.  

Both are objectively true, but a politician can use either to praise or criticize our previous administration's handling of the recession, depending on what side of the aisle they're on and what they stand to gain from it. 

Not exactly what you asked, but it is at least one reason for why you will see pundits on TV or candidates in debates seemingly spouting opposite opinions all the while screaming that their side is telling the truth and the other person is full of shit. It's all great fun!
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: The majority of their constituents either don't care or aren't smart enough to know they're being lied to. Law wise, it's not illegal to lie unless you are under oath.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Who will be arbiter of truth? You may think there is an objective standard of which we can judge if something is true or not, but there really isn't. We have our scientific models of reality but it's still growing, expanding, evolving - which means throughout history there has been always been things that our scientific models have failed to address or considered false/incorrect/irrational - that later turned out to be true, following a higher form of rationality.

Couple that with the fact that institutions and power structures form around scientific models and modes of thought, you get a situation where new standards to which judge truths are resisted. It's why wars and revolutions have been accompaning huge shifts in our understanding / consciousness... and pioneers of thought has been derided, called liars, demonized, defamed, villanized, etc. and don't think we are above that yet. It's simply arrogance to think that we have a complete model of reality today to which we can judge things as objectively true or false. 

There are also various ways to look at reality. E.g. if I say the universe revolves around earth, you may be correct in viewing that as an archaic or overly complicated model (when making certain predictions). But you'd be wrong to call it false - it's just a different frame of reference. Trouble is that most people would call it false.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Here's the danger that's brewing, which is being dangerously: 

All these claims about 'alternative facts' and 'fake news', are sowing a growing and irreversible distrust in our media for many people. Not just because there really *is* fake news out there, disinformation, but because it's become a daily occurrence to blame the media for lies, where there are none. 

But in a Democracy, we ***rely*** on an objective, fair and balanced media as an ongoing check on our Government. 

Once we lose trust in the media, once we lose the confidence in keeping our Government in check through fact-checking and many eyes on every page of every process, we've truly lost this battle.

Please fight this with everything you've got, we *NEED* the media to remain impartial, we need them to chase every curioisity, every angle, every straight and crooked story, and we need to **protect** the whistleblowers and **punish** those who refuse to.

We will win this, but it will take time.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Because the media also gets away with it. Both sides lie consistently and blatantly, so neither has any credibility to expose the others lies. There is little truth that spreads nowadays.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: [C.R.E.A.M.](_URL_0_) is not just a song by the Wu-Tang Clan.

Unfortunately, those with the will to govern, aren't usually the most noble of creatures.
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: CP Grey had a good explanation:

_URL_1_

(A more in-depth look can be found in The Dictator's Handbook)
question: Why can politicians get away with telling blatant lies?[removed] answer: Politicians in general tell the people what they want to hear. It's how they get their vote.
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: The same reason most anyone else agrees to be on TV - they want their 15 minutes of fame. When Cops wasn't a hit, most people didn't want to be on the show and refused to sign the waiver. That's why there are more blurred faces in earlier seasons. Once the show became a hit, people got excited about appearing on TV. 

Also, a lot of the people who get arrested probably don't think of getting arrested as being as embarrassing as you might. They may have friends who have been arrested and it might just not be as big of a deal to them.

Edit: The producer for Cops, John Langley, says they don't pay anyone to sign waivers [here](_URL_0_).
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: Because they really want to be on tv and this is the only chance they've encountered. And they are probably kinda stupid. Also being in a highly emotional situation, where many people feel wronged and that want want to be heard doesn't help.
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: When I was a kid, my mom's cousin and her husband were on Cops or a similar show for some domestic dispute. Apparently they never thought to let the rest of the family know, so it was a decent shock for everyone watching.
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: Some comments here reflect what the producers of these shows would want you to think of the alleged criminals portrayed in them.

Most often an underpaid assistant will approach the subject while they are sitting in the back of the cop car waiting to be driven to the station. This person will be extremely vague about what the release form is, who they work for, and why the form needs to be signed.

I know of people in this position that were told "Do not directly impersonate a police officer, but if the subject believes you to be one it will make getting the form signed much easier." Time and money are on the line as everything has already been shot, so the pressure on the entry-level person here is big.

Most any criminal who's been arrested before would see through this and not sign. Someone scared, ignorant, overwhelmed and willing to help would.

Don't sign shit without reading it and don't believe shit on television. Especially if it reaffirms your generic prejudices.
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: >  In the early days of the series, many of the perp's faces were blurred. Folks were unfamiliar with the show and were wary of appearing on camera. However, once COPS became a hit, over 90% of the arrestees signed release forms. Even though their initial reaction might have been "Get those cameras out of my face," once they found out that the footage was for COPS, they willingly agreed to be on TV. Producer Langley shrugs and figures it must have something to do with that "15 minutes of fame" thing. Interestingly enough, "blurring" is time consuming and expensive in post-production, so in later seasons of the show, a lot of perps who refuse to sign the waiver never get on camera.

[source](_URL_1_).
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: Why do they need a waiver when the events take place in public where you have no expectation of privacy?
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: I was watching Drugs, Inc. last night and was wondering the same thing.  Some people theorize that the users are real, but the dealers, cartel hitmen, and suppliers may be actors telling the stories.

There was one episode at a jail in NJ where a guy snorted "powder" in his cell as the crew filmed with face shown, revealed his nickname, and maybe serial number on his jumpsuit?  Then they showed a caption saying he'd be sent to solitary confinement if caught. You'd think whoever runs that facility would watch the episode and they'd know specifically who was being interviewed (and thus snorting), no?
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: This actually applies to me. Haha. Not a proud moment but was kicked out of a bar in Vegas and was confronted by this cop show. it wasnt "COPS" it was "Vegas Strip PD" IIRC. I really have no recollection of the event due to the fact i was black out drunk but i had a buddy with me who caught me up in the morning and then the episode proved he wasnt lying. Anyway my crime wasnt that serious so maybe that had a little to do with it but the cops were awesome and super nice as soon as i agreed to sign for the cameras. I definitely did not deserve this respect, especially after i smacked a cops hand out of my face when he pointed at me. (I am white, thanks dad). I definitely did not do it for "15 minutes of fame" my friend said that i didnt know what was going on but happily signed papers that meant i was getting let go. Will post a screenshot later if you guys need proof lol. Also ill tell the whole story if interested.

TLDR: In my drunken stupper i assumed signing the waiver meant i was free to go. had no idea it was for a tv show.

Edit1 : I was offered no money. I was not mislead, just an idiot

Edit 2: Backstory:
Ok here it goes I downed a yard long cup AMF Adios Mother Fucker you know the ones that you need a necklace to hold. Anyway after I finssihed one I thought it would be good idea for a second. The first one really messed me up and apparentlyi ordered the drink from a dancer not a bartender. So when she told me she doesnt make drinks and that I could not have my money back I flipped! Security saw me and immediately threw me out I told them my story they didnt give two shits. I was so pissed I told the 64 bouncer to come outside lol. He refused, puss... jk he would have wooped my ass. As they were throwing me out my friend was trying to calm the situation down and eventually we both walked out the back door. 
As we walked out I walked right past a cop (didnt even see him). My friend followed close behind and was stopped by the cop. The Cop said (and this is all I heard) where you from? Before my friend had a chance to respond I said JJ, dont say shit to that fool and turned round to see who it was. My friend was still in between me and the cop so I still wasnt aware it was a cop. As I finish yelling the cop points at my face and says Hey! I wasnt talking to you! So I smacked his hand out of my face and was immediately thrown against the wall and put in handcuffs. (This is all on the episode, unfortunately for me)
The only things I remember are drinking my first AMF and then a lot of flashlights being in my face. Everything else was either told to me by my friend or confirmed in the episode. I will have to post the pic later, I do not have access to my lap top.
Also apparently on my way back to my apartment I was handing out $20 bills to street performers. Such a great night!
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: in the uk we have jeremy kyle, where the storyines are always really scummy and the people are covered in a thin layer of chip pan grease and a complete lack of social grace. they get paid thousand of pounds to air their dirty laundry on national TV and have jeremy kyle call them an utter disgrace and an embarrassment to themselves. for some people it's worth the few thousand pounds, i mean, you can get a month's worth of whatever drug you're into for that much, easy.
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: I was featured on an episode of Police Interceptors, broadcast on Channel 5 in the UK. I was involved in a sting wherein my car was pulled over and the PCs searched it for drugs. Myself and my two fellow occupants were all filmed at some length during the two-hour ordeal, and six months later we all appeared on TV, albeit with our faces masked in a poor attempt to hide our identities. No consent was required, no permission was given; they simply filmed, and we waited to be shamed/celebrated on national television.
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: I have a friend who appeared on Rugged Justice on Animal Planet, he claimed they offered him a few hundred bucks to sign the waiver. He took the money.
question: ELI5: Why do people involved in extremely embarrassing situations on TV shows like Cops or Jail consent to being on television?[removed] answer: I always wondered if there was some sort of deferred adjudication offered in return for being allowed to air their faces on TV.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Doug Stanhope on Occupy "Im just saying we all occupy in our own way. You occupy your fucking, filthy Portland hippie selves, because you hate the one percent. And you hate the banks, because of their predatory lending practices; it gets the people and enslaves them in a lifetime debt. What did do you do about it? You stunk up a park for almost a year. I occupy far more efficiently. Maybe you should look to me for leadership. I hate the banks as well as we all do. How did I fuck them? I spent three hours jacking up mothers CHASE Bank visa card, after she is debt up its $10,000 limit, buying dumb shit that no one needs and sticking them with the bill, because she had no estate except for that blind fucking last cat if you want to repo that, have that.

That actually caused damaged to the bank. Not sitting around with a dog, with a kerchief and a cardboard sign. Uhh-do-do-do slapping on drums in a drum circle. Fucking occupy movement was such a let down, because you seemed like me, angry and were going to take to the streets and holy shit, the round the globe people have are above this, were going to do something. And what did you do? You fucked up a park. All you fucked up in a year is some guys day who wanted to throw a Frisbee for his dog, but you  he couldnt because youre all camped out there. You hate the banks, dont fuck up the park, fuck up the bank.

Who is in-charge of this project? Next time me. We dont really have leadership. You needed some. You have 500 angry people in a park, go break them up into squads of twenty, you can fuck up every branch of Bank of America in a 50 mile radius, go there and not as anarchists either throwing bricks throw the windows. What are you a fucking teenager, have some ingenuity, you line up as customers at eight oclock in the morning. They only have two desks to do actual commerce, other than cash, and checks and shit. You clog up those two desks as bogus customers, sit down, cross your legs, apply for frivolous loans all day long. That a lot of paperwork for every frivol. Yes I need a billion dollars for an ant farm.

Sharpen some pencils thats a big stack of paperwork, I would love some coffee. You comb your dreadlocks over to one side, put on your $3 dollar Salvation Army Suit and you clog up all their time, or could you deny me the right to apply for the loan. And then I sue the fuck out of you for discrimination, causing even more damage to your bottom line, rather than just sitting out there in a park and getting tear gas by cops. What does that do? What are you accomplishing? I got it on tape Police abuse. Yeah police abuse people thats how it works; you are never going to win."
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Everyone is missing a big one: weather. It got really cold, and most of the people who were "occupying" were doing so by choice, in the summer... Turns out "camping downtown" starts to feel a lot like "being homeless" when the rain/snow comes.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I'd say it was a lot to do with their nonspecific generalist goal of "yeah, capitalism needs to change". How can they hope to effect such an impossibly huge change with one mere protest movement? Take the suffragettes -specific goals, achieved (broadly) their goals.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: For a movement to sustain itself it has to have objective and reachable goals to work towards tactical victories that maintain momentum and bring attention to the larger struggle. Occupy had no achievable goals, from what was communicated. It seemed they just wanted to make things fairer, which means nothing. 

Civil Rights for blacks did this through incrementalism, ending school segregation(on paper), bus boycotts, freedom marches to draw attention to the need for a voting rights act. This is why Civil Rights is seen as the most succesful civil sction in US history. 

Even the tea party, which started out with nebulous goals of, "More Freedom, less non-freedom", coalesced into definable goals of helping Republicans take back the Legislative branch and throw a monkey wrench in President Obamas plans, to some success.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Young people aren't very good at movements, it always turns into a party and/or shitshow and grows because of a running with the herd mentality rather than individual frustrations being channeled into an encompassing political movement that will affect change.  Here's why OWS was a bust:

1) No leaders.

2) Too many causes.

3) No plan.

4) Assumption that the rest of society doesn't realize there is a problem therefore that's why nothing is getting fixed.  Not realizing the possibility that everybody knows, but we are all waiting for an effective solution.

5) Disregarding political mechanisms to achieving their ends and resorting to anarchy.


One of the greatest phenomenon that we have ever witnessed in all of the universe happens when hundreds, or thousands, or many millions of people get together and channel all of their strength, their voice, their belief, their power into one person.  And that one person can walk into any negotiation, with any organization, against the mightiest and greatest of foes, and have all of the combined power of those millions behind him.  If your foe doesn't agree with you, millions of people will say he is wrong.  If your foe continues his oppression, millions of people will stop working.  If your foe hits you, millions will hit him back.  If your foe sues you, millions of people petition the court.  If your foe ousts you from political power, millions of people disavow the political system.  This has been proven time and time again from the beginning of human history to it's end.  It's found in nature amongst animals, it's found in nature amongst human animals, it's found in our civilized societies with endless examples from the dictatorships that started our societies to kings and queens, to elected rulers, to Martin Luther King Jr., to Mahatma Gandhi, to Mao Zedong/Stalin/Hitler, to today! So what do the kids at OWS say to this?  No, fuck that.  We are living in the Internet age, we don't need leaders, we are ALL leaders.  Sounds nice, but this is a model that has never been proven.  And it's not a stretch to imagine why it hasn't worked.  With individual power comes individual strength, with elected ruler power comes the strength of millions.  Millions can't walk into a negotiation.  Millions can't make up their minds.  Millions can't decide on a dime.  One person can.  And one person can take the wishes of the millions and turn it into effective negotiation. They didn't cultivate this power, they let it grow organically without channeling it, and not surprisingly just like heat that isn't contained, it eventually dissipates.  

Students are the worst activists, see the 60's and OWS.  They are young, uneducated (going through education), inexperienced, overly ambitious, overconfident, cocky, and most of all they have nothing to lose.  They're also prone to peer pressure and doing stuff just because everyone else is doing it.  When the people who have everything to lose drop it all and say this is fucked up and I'm not going to till the soil anymore, I'm going to go to the landlord's house and let him hear my voice till he treats me fairly, that's when we get revolution.  When the rich/middle class feel pressured enough, they petition the political system to change, and force it to change whether it wants to or not because they run society.  Students don't run society, not today's, they run tomorrow's society.  They are the worst voice we could have.  

How do we do this then?
- Get the rich involved, make them fear for their money and you can win them over and have powerful allies to fight against powerful foes.  Strikes, property destruction, vandalism in nice neighborhoods, domestic terrorism, may all be effective, or they might tank the whole movement because they trigger an immense defensive response that the movement can't overcome.  The leaders of the movement have to prove themselves with the right decisions.  Always err on the side of peace, see MLK and Ghandi.  

- Get the middle class so unnerved that they're willing to sacrifice what they have (the car, the mortgage, the kid's college fund, your comfortable life) in the hopes of a better existence.  Then you can use their massive voting power to elect a brilliant, charismatic leader of the movement, and vote in senators/representatives who are leaders of the movement, and then the movement is no longer fighting a powerful government, IT IS a powerful government.  They then appoint more of their leaders into key positions, the CIA, the department of defense, NSA, EPA, etc...  Now our wishes and beliefs are guiding the decisions our government makes.

- Then after a few decades, we do it all over again because everything corrupts, even things that are ours, that were once virtuous or once righteous.  Everything dies and has to be replaced.  Luckily this formula can be reused over and over and over again, like it has in the past.

TL;DR I don't know why you're reading this, I'm a 28 year old college dropout who doesn't know what he is doing.  :)))))))))))

Edit: added a remedy.  Brought to you by Snake Oil Inc.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: ITT: Lots of armchair activists but few who were actually involved or close to occupy.

Let's get things straight here, occupy failed for a million tiny reasons but one primary: *no one could agree on why it existed.*

Here was a movement with so much potential that it was attracting the leaders of other prominent movements to come help. But there was one main problem: the environmentalists didn't want to stop being environmentalists. The net-neutrality trolls didn't want to stop wearing Guy Fawkes masks. The nuclear disarmament/peace activists didn't want to stop doing their thing either. 

In short, everyone with an agenda from here to Strawberry Hill decided that Occupy was "their chance", and few were willing to actually work together in common cause.

Meanwhile the general assemblies really were attracting brilliant minds to come down and discuss the issues of the day, like our ancestors did in the 17/1800's....   but they expected an open Roman Forum, and arrived to a bunch of dirty fucking hippies arguing over who was going to buy the vegan hamburgers and who was going to keep the compost toilet running. 

Something like occupy will come again one day, but for it to succeed activists will need to learn to take off their hat for the day and support whatever the cause actually is. Occupy was supposed to be about addressing the corruption at the core of our economic system...  in the end it was just a failed attempt at a catch all.

In my opinion that failure doesn't rest on the shoulders of the people who originally took up the call to action and made occupy possible, so much as it rests on the shoulders of every activist that refused to work in common cause with people who think differently. 

Edit: typo
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I know here in Denver they simply passed a law banning camping in the park.  Pretty much a done deal after that.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: to quote that eminent authority, Dr. Zeppo Shemp, from when I answered this same question two years ago: 

 >  Occupy had no real plan whatsoever. it was a giant temper-tantrum that quickly burned itself out. they had a list of impossible, utopian goals like ending poverty.

 > in fact, in October 2011, just after the protests started, a political science professor predicted that the Occupy movement would be a failure. why? because they were repeating the same errors that led to failure for the New Left and the hippies in the 1960s and '70s. 

you can read that political science professor John W. Cioffi explanation here: _URL_0_ 

to quote: 
 > Movements like the one we are seeing today usually arise two to three years after the beginning of a severe political economic crisis, as people realize that the situation is the new normal and overcome their initial disorientation, he says. Were right on schedule. [...] 

 > However, for a social movement to perpetuate itself and effect change, it must develop or affiliate with a leadership and organizational structure able to wield power, develop specific demands, and fashion them into a coherent programmatic agendaall without losing the enthusiasm of the base. This is a transformation that few movements can manage, and it often requires some portion of the political or economic elite to ally themselves with the cause."

 > The movement has no deep-pocketed backers as does the tea party, nor is there any prospect that it will generate its own resources like the labor movement of the 1930s, and it has at most a tenuous connection to existing elites, unlike the abolition movement or contemporary religious right. That makes its self-organization even more important as a source of influence and power. At present, the occupation movement appears to endorse participatory democracy and rule by consensus, threatening to repeat the mistakes of the 1960s New Left and leave it among the long list of failed movements.

tl;dr: "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it" ~~ George Santayana

edit: Zeppo Shemp is not a real doctor, please do your own research and analysis
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Whatever legitimate criticisms were aimed at "Wall Street" (which is actually a really stupid moniker for "financial institutions") they were lost among the hippie garbage and stupid socialist bullshit. 

It's a common problem when agendas aren't clear regarding a social movement. People forget that the "Tea Party" movement was ANTI- republican and ANTI- democrat. It was a libertarian constitutionalist movement for about two weeks before Sarah Palin co-opted it, stole the spotlight, and turned it into a neoconservative movement.

It happens everywhere. If you're lucky, it fizzles. If you're unlucky, some steals it and it lives on with a new agenda.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: i remember reading about how the original purpose of the protest being diluted by feminism and other social justices to the point of actually alienating certain groups

like somehow it went from WE are the 99% to WE are the 99% but some of us have more say on the matter because we are  MORE "oppressed".

kinda like animal farm and those pigs
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I was a little involved with Occupy and I see a big problem was the requirement for unanimous consensus.  This means that all somebody who doesn't like Occupy has to do is go into a meeting and vote no for everything.  99 yes, 1 no.  The vote fails.  The meeting stalls and all the Occupy tribes begin to hate/mistrust each other.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: TL;DR: it was an unorganized movement with  no real goal filled with mostly ignorant teens who don't know how economics works. Naturally it fizzled out
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I went to the first local meeting because I was REALLY SERIOUSLY INTO IT. They proceeded to stand around talking about the corporations, man, then say we should all walk downtown and protest at one of the banks.

It was a Saturday. The bank was closed. It was also a totally locally-owned and independent bank.

I never went back. Those people were a joke.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Primarily, a full frontal attack by law enforcement and the media. Effectively, Occupy was facing the FBI, Military Intelligence, combined power of the banks, local police, state law enforcement, the legislative branch, the executive branch, Wall Street, private security firms, and the Federal Reserve all concentrating on removing them from the political discourse. Not joking - Wall Street was actually telling American law enforcement how to handle the Occupy Movement.

Here's a list of things law enforcement did to undermine Occupy (paraphrased) [from the Wiki article](_URL_2_):

Government documents released in December 2012 reveal: 

* FBI started monitoring the Occupy movement about a month before it really kicked off.

* The FBI, DHS, local police, regional law enforcement "counterterrorism" groups, and private security forces of major banks formed the Domestic Security Alliance Council (DSAC) to target and to arrest Occupy protesters before any laws were broken.

* Banks met with the FBI to pool information about participants of the Occupy movement collected by corporate security, and the FBI offered to bank officials its plans to prevent Occupy events that were scheduled for a month later.

* FBI officials met with New York Stock Exchange, Federal Reserve, and Zions Bank to plan to break up upcoming protests.

* The FBI  &  Military Intelligence used informants to infiltrate and monitor protests, which then gave updates to financial companies.

* Surveillance of protestors was also carried out by the Joint Terrorism Task Force. 

* DSAC also coordinated with security firms hired by banks to target OWS leaders.

Media immediately took a much harsher view of protesters than they did of the Tea Party - one of the first national news outlets to cover it was Erin Burnett's first or second show on CNN, [where she described protesters as buffoons](_URL_2_), where as the Tea Party was viewed immediately as a "Game Changer" and "A Powerful Populist Movement". That shaped the media discourse throughout it's existence and never really changed. Media would often find the most "out there" person in the crowd to discredit the movement.

That being said, the Occupy Movement never went away. It shifted focus into small task forces that have made real impacts since 2011.

* Occupy Sandy - Helped with the clean up after Hurricane Sandy, made up of former protesters. Initially welcomed by Mayor Bloomberg, they were suddenly ejected as volunteers for the clean up effort.

* Strike Debt - A group focused on debt issues. They have published the "Debt Resistors Handbook", and through 'Operation Rolling Jubilee' have bought and forgiven **$31,982,455 of debt** off the debt exchanges. No strings. They just send a note to the debtor saying "Your debt has been cancelled."

* Occupy SEC - A group of professionals who have acted as financial watch dogs in regards to Wall Street doings. They actually made a big splash when they filed a brief on the Vocker Rule.

The biggest effect, though, might be that it helped to radicalize a large segment of the youth in this country and set the tone for young people as left-leaning and populist voters in the coming years.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Speaking as someone who originally supported the movement, I went down to Zuccotti Park once to check it out. The conspiracy nuts were out in full force with everything from "the government is trying to slowly poison us through pizza" to "fluoride in the water/mind control" to "chemtrails". Of course, there was the cause of banking practices, which was the main point, but which was drowned out by other causes: Monsanto, Koch Brothers, meat is murder, No Blood For Oil (still!) etc etc. It seemed like it had no fucking idea what was going on, and was so scatterbrained that there really was no point to be made.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The leadership: film-school majors trying to imitate their perceived version of protests and hippies from the 60s.


The message: not concise to begin with, but mixing identity politics with issues on economic reform really convoluted things on higher level.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because there are people pulling the wagon and people riding in the wagon.

When the people pulling the wagon say they're pissed off and threaten to quit, everyone gets nervous.  What will happen when they quit? Are we all going to have to walk? Can we get somebody else to pull the wagon? Can somebody carry my stuff for me? Where will we all go? Scary stuff.

But when the people riding in the wagon say they're pissed off and threaten to quit, everybody else says, "Good, get the fuck outta the wagon.  It will be lighter to pull and roomier to sit in."
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Occupy Wall Street came to a grinding halt in NYC when they were evicted from Zuccotti Park.  Without a centralized place to camp, assemble, etc., the movement lost all of the momentum it had been gaining.  A ton of people had to leave NYC without the camp ground, for example.  Plus, there wasn't some monolithic thing that the 24-hour news crews could count on to fill time, and I imagine that new recruits were harder to come by without all of the constant exposure.  There were a few demonstrations and ad hoc camp sites afterward, but nothing gained any traction after Zuccotti Park was gone.

Source: I lived about 5 blocks from Zuccotti Park during Occupy.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: During the OWS protests in NYC I was working for a rather large bank and effectively worked on "Wall St." and as someone who is quite liberal and nowhere near the 1% I was in favor of protesting against the practices that were followed by the industry as a whole. During my lunch hours and breaks I would go down to the protest to protest a bit and see what it was all about and what I saw at the protest I did not like at all:

The bulk of the protesters appeared to be those that perhaps lived on the fringes of normal society and were perhaps looking for any excuse to "protest" regardless of what it was. 

It was very clear to me that to the people protesting it wasn't about  protesting wall st., it was simply to protest.

People were smoking a lot of pot. While I am in favor of pot smoking and its legalization the amount of pot being smoked detracted from any message.

Most people that were protesting seemed to be career protesters. 

Many of the people protesting were the same homeless, stinky, and filthy hippies that I had seen around NYC begging for change.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: In my opinion, it was partly due to the attitudes of most middle class families towards them. Most of the  people I knew regarded them as a stereotyped liberal arts graduates. Not much sympathy goes towards people who are seen as "whiny".

I went to NYC in high school the spring after occupy became known (it was for an euro challenge, an economics competition lol). Most of the other students there thought the same thing about the occupy movement since we just learned beginner economics, and the "big business" adults we met reinforced that viewpoint. We saw one guy sing Uprising by Muse for the movement and then turn around to promote his music. I guess when you're desperate for money you just can't expect the movement to be "heroic".
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Let me introduce you to [The Progressive Stack](_URL_3_).

Are you a well-educated white, straight, male? Fuck your ideas everyone else talks before you.  If you a white woman, minorities talk before you.  Are you a male minority? Female minorities talk before you.  Are you a female minority?  Homosexuals and people who don't identify as straight speak before you.  Are you not straight?  Well disabled people speak before you.

That's right, a movement about income inequality was derailed by SJWs.  

Great job, morons.  Fight the red herring, keep fighting until everyone is a disabled, sexually atypical, minority.  The 1% will laugh their way into their well-supplied redoubts and watch the 99% eat each other over physical and cognitive traits that they have no control over.

Victimphilic culture killed OWS.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because most people knew that they were a bunch of entitled college man-children complaining about how their degree in Renaissance poetry wasn't useful in the real world and how capitalism is so bad even though most of them had iphones. Not to mention that they trashed every place they protested in while claiming to care about the environment. If you don't practice what you preach, no one will take you seriously.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The Occupy phenomenon was largely a political movement in representative democracies, such as the US, the UK, Israel, and Australia. 

Contrary to much popular belief, public policy in modern representative democracies ultimately depends on what makes voters angry and what makes angry people vote. Occupy never successfully translated its values or objectives, such as they were, into action at the ballot box.

I believe this was partly fuelled by the fact that the Occupy movement itself attracted people who were (and are) especially steeped in a particular form of despair about the failings of the political process. This is the view that the electoral process is just as "rigged" as the regulatory process (though the complaints about the electoral process differ from country to country).  This helped Occupy slide into being a movement whose critique was so broad that it seemed almost anti-Occupy to organize around certain candidates for office or explicit policy documents. In fact, it seemed almost anti-Occupy to coalesce around anything particularly firm at all, since that could be perceived as closing down the participatory moment. 

The irony, of course, is that all this took place right in the middle of a period in which right-wing popular movements were being *highly* effective at changing the policy landscape. (See: Tea Party Republicans, UKIP, the Front National, the Jewish Home...). They have often been doing this despite their views being initially located at the fringe of the political culture, despite an initial lack of broad media support, and at the expense of politicians who had entrenched themselves by spending their entire careers shilling for moneyed interests. 

Yes, Americans can rightly point out that much of the Tea Party movement has ended up being an even more rabid lap dog for a few of the richest and most powerful corporations. And any movement that gets serious and wants to develop resources is vulnerable to various forms of co-option. But even for the Tea Party, that would almost be getting the lesson backward. Despite some early and shadowy injections of support in various places, most of the serious money -- especially the bank money -- either never switched away from old mainstream Republicans or only did so after Tea Party candidates proved they had the grassroots capacity to win primaries and survive general elections. 

So to me, the irony for the US is this: you had a movement that in just a few years proved that voters really could rally around whatever issues they wanted to. And they could both (a) unseat moneyed elites' political partners and (b) move the "middle" to their own side by forcing every other politician to engage with their demands or face the risk of a brutal campaign.  It just so happened that the participants in this movement were ideologically inclined to favor public policies that *buck* the majority sentiment that threatened elites' economic power. The Tea Party is largely a gift that fell in elites' laps via a process that could have been hugely dangerous to them. Did you ever see the movie *Hero*? [Spoiler alert]. The main character accomplishes the near-impossible feat of penetrating the supposedly-impregnable seat of power of the King, his natural enemy, and gets close enough to kill him. Then, when he finally gets there, he realizes he actually kind of *likes* what the King is doing and ends up being an enabler of it. 

Meanwhile, the Occupy movement -- in spite of its shitty name and hackneyed initial tactics -- rested on an ideological platform that conformed much better to majority views. It also, at least in certain key areas, could draw on better logic and research than Tea Party economics. But its most active and influential participants spent their time being inexplicably convinced that they could not meaningfully achieve any of their goals through the existing political process. And even if they were tempted to try, I think they were socially unwilling to face the inevitable consequences of transitioning from a movement "for everybody" to a movement "to get these things". That's a process that always involves painful divisions that empower some in the movement while alienating others. Maybe it seemed easier for them to allow Occupy to fade in an atmosphere of love and brotherhood than to sharpen it into a tool while scarring it with the bitter disputes that always come along with that.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I actually work on Wall St. I am far from being the 1%. I paid for my own college (still got student loans to prove it at 31yrs), my parents gave me no money besides raising me. I make a reasonable living now, in New York City it's not even anywhere close to being a top bracket. I consider myself medium (not even upper). I don't scrape along for a living but I still have to save and I can't afford a house or property.


That said, I consider myself fairly liberal and had a really hard time finding work and getting ahead at first. I really went through the ringer getting to where I am, got fired more than once at different jobs for dumb reasons, got laid off, worked temp jobs, etc. I now work for a bank as a support role, not trading or banking. So I consider myself fairly sympathetic to the OWS mantra. However even I couldn't connect to the OWS movement. After a while, it went from being about giving opportunities and job creation and deteriorated into a mob of hippies and hooligans spitting on people, cursing them out, and doing all sorts of obscene things as an outright display of anger. There were just NO GOALS! NO ORGANIZATION, nothing you can give to the authorities as a plausible and achievable alternative to what's happening now. Chanting "down with capitalism" and "destroy the 1%" and "die corporate pigs" does nothing. 




What these people did was just constantly harass people that work in the area. My coworkers had to change clothes during the day because for a while, anyone with work clothes would get harassed on their way to work. The people I work with are in compliance, and we work to find the Bernard Madoff guys and people committing fraud and shut down accounts. It didn't make any sense that these people harassed us over issues we didn't perpetrate and were actively trying to solve. 




The best example of OWS not being well organized was the fact that they occupied Wall Street in the first place. Most people in the finance world knows that besides the NYSE and only a FEW banks, MOST OF THE LARGE FINANCIAL ORGANIZATIONS LEFT WALL STREET AGES AGO. Most of them are nestled in midtown now. Midtown is the new financial center and downtown Financial District is slowly being converted into residential space. Morgan Stanley is in Times Sq, Goldman Sachs is Jersey City and the World Trade area next to the Hudson, Citigroup is in Long Island City. They really should've been occupying midtown. Watching the OWS people argue with finance people on TV, it became quickly evident that some of these people have NO IDEA how the financial system worked and were only working off of things from headlines and popular tropes. They seemed like an angry mob that didn't understand enough to engage in intellectual discussions and were only focused on the end goals, not how to get there. What OWS needed was a leader or figurehead that could keep up with the politicians and leaders with the strength of the movement behind them. They needed a leader that could focus the movement that could gain national appeal or hurt the institutions in a way that was non-violent so they couldn't be ignored. If such a person ever existed, they never emerged into the spotlight.


TL;DR: the Occupy movement started with nice themes about equality, fairness, but soon quickly turned into a disorganized group full of anarchists and the smart people never emerged into the spotlight.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: You'll see nothing but "it had no point" or "no leadership" or "nothing but entitled youngsters", etc etc.

The real reason it fizzled out was because it had to. Think about the powers they were up against - that we're all up against. The banking and financial sector is worth hundreds of billions of dollars. Lower Manhattan is owned by these entities and the police work for them. The Mayor of NYC works for them. The governor works for them. The President and the vast majority of Congress works for them.

They own the country and *at worst* they had to do nothing but wait for it to fizzle. Instead, they made the police forcibly remove them and generally get them to go away.

You could have had the entire population of NYC crowding on those areas and it still wouldn't have done anything. These entities are some much more powerful than any protest could be.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because they had absolutely no idea how a bank or the financial system worked (on the most part) and just went with the 'I hate the 1%' vitriol. You can't really protest something if you don't know what the problem with it is.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Movements need definable goals that are actually achievable. Compare and contrast:
A) Give women the right to vote
B) Make capitalism less oppressive. 
How do you measure B as opposed to A?
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: There's a lot of folks in this thread who weren't there saying that ows had no goals or whatever. It's just wrong and baseless.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Infiltration by undercover police  &  their collaborators, niche issue opportunists, anarchists with their anti-leadership fetish, loud but sadly under-read and confused undergrads, and idiots.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: It failed because like other counter culture movements such as the hippies in the late 60s, it found fault with a society but it didn't offer a workable alternative. Yes, we all know wall street investment bankers are greedy pricks who lobby Congress to rig the game in their favor. But what better solution do you have? Piss and moan about unfairness in a tent in the freezing cold. That works about as well as hunger strikes do.The commune movement and free love of the late 60's sounded like a good idea on the surface, but what was the result of it?  More bastard children on the welfare rolls because mom doesn't know who dad is and if she does identify him, he isn't holding down a job to help support the baby. If people wanted to wear hair down to the bottom of their ass cheeks, wear bell bottom pants, smoke pot all day and listen to the Greatful Dead from Friday at 5pm to Monday morning and then work a job and pay taxes like everyone else. Where do I sign up?  All they did was to use weak arguments to rationalize their basic laziness and social irresponsibility.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I'd say like a lot of issues it's primarily the result of our manic, 24 hour news cycle.  Occupy was never an organized movement so much as it was a media flashpoint event that people participated in.  Once the media moved on, so did the people.  If there were a stronger organizational hierarchy and better recruitment and retention efforts, it might have built into something bigger.  You can see this again and again, beyond protest movements, where people become highly engaged in some big issue for a week - natural disaster, revolutions, wars, etc. - and by the end of the following week they're already focused on something else.  

I think it was Vice or some other docu show that did a piece on Haiti, for example.  Remember how big of a deal that was, after the earthquake, for like, 2 weeks?  Well it turns out all of our aid did fuck all, and nobody knows or cares because within a couple weeks everyone had moved on (health care legislation, Boston bomber, gulf oil spill) to the next topic that dominated the news cycle.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: It failed because it was started and run by a bunch of whiny-ass liberals who thought it was fun to demand that my hard earned money be given to them, the non-producers. 

Case in point, the guy who was interviewed who had a job but he quit it to go back to college  to a get a Masters in - get this stupid fucking idea - Puppetry. No shit, a Masters in Puppetry.

He was complaining about "the system" because he could not find a job to repay the student loans he took out to get that Masters in Puppetry. 

The movement was started and run by a whole bunch of whiny-ass fucking liberal morons like that - come to think about it, just like a large portion that post on Reddit everyday. 

THAT is why it never took off. It was a bunch of stupid liberals who think the world owes them everything.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Media was a driving factor. It doesn't matter if they had a specific goal, they would be portrayed as not having one. It doesn't matter if many of the protestors were rather educated, productive members of society; they would be portrayed as a group of homeless people bumming off society. Want a more equitable capitalistic system? You must be a socialist. Want the financial institutions responsible for the Great Recession to be punished? Not going to happen. 

Rich people don't want to hear about income inequality and the corruption of our Republic by financial institutions/big business...so the movement was crushed.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Its a problem you see in a lot of left-leaning movements. It becomes fractured so easily by identity politics and ideology. 

In Milwaukee, for instance, the movement splintered into Occupy The Hood, Occupy the Barrio, etc. It splintered between the people who felt something needed to be physically occupied and those that did not. It splintered among the moderates, the labor groups, the communists and the anarchists.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The movement did not "fizzle out", the federal government coordinated local law enforcement to raid the camps in every major US city on the same day. Oakland mayor Jean Quan was the only one dumb enough to [admit it](_URL_4_). The camps in Oakland and SF were still going strong up until that day.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The $175m in damage and closed businesses didnt help anything. Along with drug use and rapes. I know I know, they werent with us they were just a few trouble makers. Sorry buddy. They were with you.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because the entire movement was people whining that they have a right to other peoples' stuff. The fact is, they don't.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I recall one video where they had a speaker come up, he was completely on board with what they were doing. At the same time they had some weird shit going on where EVERYONE in the crowd would mimic what the main person in the group was saying. She would say "We like sausage" "because" "reasons" and 2 seconds later, a wave of "We like sausage" "because" "reasons". It was some really creepy shit.

Anyways, the guy came up trying to speak and they literally would not let him speak. They would just chant over him, while hes trying to give a speech about how on board with them he is and what not, and they just wouldn't shut up. I think at one point they started hissing.

At that point I knew for certain if it wasn't already dead, its on its last leg. Granted I never had much hope in a bunch of politically uneducated hippies from the get go.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Just as a lot of us predicted, without **clear goals**, and more importantly the **leadership** to articulate those goals to the public via the **media**, it was doomed from the moment the first bedroll arrived. 

Because even friendly media outlets like MSNBC had a hard time framing Occupy in a positive light and instead the American public simply saw a bunch of proto-hippies spouting half-baked political concepts they learned the week before. 

Worse, none of them wanted to listen to the advice to get more organized and to state concrete goals from folks who wanted them to succeed. *"Nah, dude, we don't need your dying media ideas and patriarchal structure to accomplish what we want in the 21st Century. There were no leaders in Tahrir Square and they brought down the entire government."*
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: First: Because the Occupy movement was made up of the kind of people in society who can barely tie their own shoelaces let alone get anything major done.

Second: Because the Occupy movement focused on symptoms instead of the root problem. The root of the problem is that children are being raised on a steady diet of family violence and disrespect, therefore they easily accept a violent state solution to their problems. A population that looks to the state to violently solve problems trades their freedom for the illusion of security. Symptoms of this include crony capitalist banks, regulatory capture, centralized control of the economy, and eventually full on tyrannical socialism.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I think two things: (1) The majority of the people involved were self entitled 20 year olds that were upset by the fact that they were not millionaires a year out of college. (2) The movement was also filled with people that were just there because it made them feel like they were important. They got to say "I was there maaaaaan" to all of their friends. It was just organized and nobody had a solution. It was like a little kid just sitting down in the middle of the mall refusing to get up. No logic, no alternatives, just a temper tantrum.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The reason that the Occupy Wall Street movement failed was the anger towards the 1% did not appeal to real justice. There are many in the 1% that have come to it by honest means. This left the argument open to attack. It should have been, "zero tolerance for financial corruption and abuse of political power" or something direct. This is a target that is hard to wriggle out of or be manipulated by media interests. Sadly, the attack on the 1% end up being a sitting duck for distortion. People are upset with corruption  &  are justified in that.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: One of the biggest issues was the progressive stack 

_URL_5_

One of the biggest side effects of the Progressive stack is the fact that it was leveraged by the radical left to...core out the movement. Most of the Occupy sites were cored out by infighting between the more moderate anarchy types and the more radical left wingers. Identity politics was a big cause of the movement fizzling out

Oh, and the police crackdown. That was another issue, but the movement was basically weakened by identity politics and dismantled by the police.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: It turns out that the stock exchange is not in Zuccoti Park, nor does occupying it prevent bankers from doing their thing, nor does playing drums there fundamentally alter the relationship between the government, the public, and the banking industry. There were also some paper mache puppets and some cardboard signs, but strangely enough,  they didn't seem to help either.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Really slacktavists don't give a shit about change and just want to be part of a hashtag because they are 20somethings who haven't figured themselves out, eventually something else comes along that they latch on to and they care about that for a week or so.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: All I know is they made it incredibly difficult for people like me who barely make any money to get to my job. They weren't just trying to screw with the 1% they screwed with a lot of the little people as well.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: ELI5 answer is encapsulated as this entire thread. Nobody can agree on things. Nobody is willing to compromise a part of their beliefs in order to get some change going elsewhere. Everyone is upset, but nobody is taking effective action.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: they realized they were not supporting anything. They realized they were just clowns that were sheep to their master protesters. They got bored and went to their studio apartments in brooklyn paid for by their parents.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I did computer work for a Wall Street bank during the height of the Occupy movement, so I got a good first hand look at what they were about.

Here are some of my impressions:

* they didn't have much of a message beyond "banks suck, corporations suck, the 1% suck", and didn't offer any solutions of their own
* I know it is cliche, but it was really hard, after working a long and seeing people camped out all day and night, not to think "you know, maybe if spent that time looking for a job..."
* there was a lot of young people in the crowd...not that young people don't have something do say, but they weren't the people who got foreclosed upon, laid off, or lost their pensions
* they seemed to be bolstering their numbers with homeless people along for the ride...not that homelessness isn't a problem, but it seemed disingenous
* every activist out there tried to co-opt the movement to suit their purpose...racism and sexism are important issues, but the 1%, the patriarchy, and white privilege are not the same thing, and protesting all of them dilutes the message
* I felt a sense of hostility directed towards me because through education and hard work the system was working for me
* on top of those things, the economy improved, Obamacare passed, and things started to get better
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: People don't take 22 year old hipsters who have degrees in gender studies seriously.

There's a reason why they're $80k in debt and make barely above minimum wage: they have no marketable skills.

Just because you went to a nice state college and obtained your liberal arts degree doesn't mean you automatically qualify for at least $35,000 a year in pay. Those little shits felt so entitled to something they weren't qualified for, that they started the Occupy Wall street movement. When people who have real jobs saw this, they understood how stupid it was and moved on (eventually).

There's a reason why high school drop out roughnecks make more than someone who has a master's degree in gender studies: skill set.

Level of educational achievement != skill set. Depending on the skill set, the value you add to a company can be high. High value adding skill sets equal high pay.

Hipsters still don't understand this.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because it was a movement for change that will never happen at least not the way they were trying to go about it. They literally just pissed people off who wanted to go about their day and mostly people who had nothing to do with what was going on. If you want to enact social change protesting in suits and ties and running for office will get you a hell of a lot farther than a drum circle in the middle of a park.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Easy. Occupy had such minimal understanding of economics and finance that they couldn't put together a coherent argument between the overeducated (never lived in the real world) liberal arts professors and smelly hipsters that can't figure out why taking out 100k in loans for a degree in oil painting was a bad idea.
**Disclaimers: I have a liberal arts degree (but work in tech) and many liberal viewpoints. That said, know-nothings are still know-nothings.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Plain and simple: Lack of results. After a while, it became clear that the rich elite don't care if a bunch of people are sitting in parks or loitering in public spaces, creating a minor inconvenience via traffic blockage. The people doing the protesting aren't huge contributors to Wall Street or political campaigns, so they got ignored.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I would say a lot of it has to do with them not having a leadership and a clear plan to obtain their goals.  

They were also co-opted by larger entities, which is pretty much what happened to the Tea Party as well.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because they were sitting around like homeless people and realized, ah yes this is why we are poor, because we do not work. It was one of the dumbest movements of all time.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: It helps if at least the majority of protesters know what is being protested. In this case, most didn't have a clue.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because it was just a bunch of poor losers with poetry degrees from DeVry wondering why they couldn't get a job lol.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: People were mad at something, but they didn't really know what they were mad at or why they were mad at it.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: They ran out of places to charge their MacBooks?
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Strange that people upvoted the "weather" when the movement lasted well into February before running out money. Not to mention the various other occupations in more temperate climates (e.g. California).

Having been a part of the movement for a few months before it died out, I can think of 3 major reasons for it's downfall:

1. It ran out of money: During one critical GA in December, the Finance Group stated exactly how much money was spent per day on food and donations to other movements, and expressed deep concerns about the way the movement was hemorrhaging money since donations were not as plentiful as they were at the start. I don't remember when they ran out of funds, but it was shortly after the Finance working group's budgeting proposal to appropriately handle funds. Which brings me to point no. 2.

2. Occupy Wall Street was not one linear organization, but a sort of coalition made up of working groups, each dedicated to their own cause. As the movement grew, the amount of groups did also, dividing the cause's dedications and creating friction between groups over who deserved money and who didn't. This ties into the previous point, where many groups had an inherent distrust of how Finance handled the cash, and often accused them of being opaque in their money-handling. So Finance didn't receive the cooperation it asked for when they were making proposals to avoid financial ruin. The food thing, which was the largest of OWS' expenses, comes from how...

3. Occupy Wall Street became an elaborate homeless shelter. By Occupying and offering the resources they did, they attract a lot of people who were otherwise not interested in the social cause. These people, a motley crew of homeless people, mentally ill, drug addicts, and all-around nomads, strongly influenced the direction in which money was dispersed, both because no one wanted to neglect them, and because they were always around to participate in assemblies. This further divided attention in a movement who's focus was already compromised by its many working groups.

TL;DR It's not weather; the movement crashed in warm places too. It was funds for food, too many working groups with too much pride, and the need to care for its homeless and disadvantaged that crippled Occupy Wall Street from the inside out.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I use to lead a protest group, so I can venture a guess as to why OWS failed. They fell pray to the problem that hinders a lot of social and protest movements. They had no strong leaders who could bring the gap between their group and the rest of society. They didn't have anyone who could speak in a way that made sense to people outside the group. Anyone can pander to the OWS believers, but it takes a true leader to lead the group against the entrenched interests. They didn't have one, or more likely, the real leaders were pushed out by charlatans who just wanted attention.

So OWS was essentially a chicken running around without its head. Liberal people tend to hate power hierarchies, which is why most of their movements tend to go no where in America. The instant someone becomes a real leader they yell "informal leadership" or "patriarchy" or "oppression." I know this from first hand experience. I founded and led a protest group. We went from a couple of people to over 150 members in less than a year. We were a powerful group in the community, and we got results. Then me and the other leaders were forced out of leadership roles, because it was suppose to be a "flat non-hierarchical" group. The group disbanded with 6 months. We went from one of the most powerful groups in the community to nothing in a matter of months. Social movements are very fragile things. Sometimes it takes a strong hands-on leader to move the group together in the right direction. Don't tell any OWSers that or they will yell "Oppressor."
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: First, the movements goals and purpose became diluted by the smear campaigns conducted by the media. Everyone in the movement was painted as know-nothings that promoted anarchy, communism, socialism, etc. So the vast majority of ignorant Americans bought into this story that the movement was composed of disgruntled and disillusioned  bottom dwellers that wanted handouts from the government when that simply wasn't the case. The smear campaign weakened the message of occupy wall-street, and so many Americans watching all of this unfold on their TV screens generally condemned the movement. Support from the rest of society was cutoff.

Second, lack of organization. Again this is why the smear campaign was so effective, because the message of the movement was all over the place, and no central authority existed to clearly define the moments messages and objectives.

Third,  you can only camp out in front of Goldman Sachs for so long before you have to deal with all the personal matters in your life.

Fourth, loss of hope for change. And in all honesty, the movement did not have a lasting impact on politics and our economy, as a result of all the reasons mentioned before.

Fifth, weather.

And sixth, the police crackdown that forced people to camp in some really uncomfortable places.

These are all the reasons that in my mind were the most decisive factors that resulted in the dissipation of the movement itself. Of course it is these reasons working in concert to dampen the movements momentum, because just one of these reasons alone would not have been enough for the movement to disintegrate the way it did.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I don't feel it died out so much as ran it's course. The message got out, the movement had no other firm objectives. I think the discussion Occupy started is still very much alive in public discourse.

Locally, we have seen some big political changes recently. I'm in Alberta, Canada which had a major upset in the most recent provincial election. For context Alberta has been a major hotbed for conservatives for the last 40 years. The right wing parties have had an overwhelming majority even when they split the vote. The left has had a non-existent presence here for decades.

Then this last election the NDP won a majority government. Until one month before the election all polls said maybe 1 to 3 seats would go to the NDP. This is a party who's platform contains stuff like increasing corporate taxes, and increasing taxes on the wealthy so they can increase government spending. By US standards they are a radical far left party. When they started to pull ahead in the polls it was shock and awe. One of the MLAs, a doctor said he had worked all over the world and never seen such a radical transition of power done peacefully before.

Occupy was important here. The homeless, the disenfranchised, and the poor came out and really made their presence known. I don't think it's a coincidence that a movement defined by the discussion of democratic decision making and income inequality came a few years before this election.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: No clear goals.

No leaders.  

Damage to public property.

Damage to private property.

Disruption of the lives of people who were on the fence on the issue.

I've never considered protest to be a good way to involve yourself in government.  The real path to changing a society is a lot of miserable hard work.  It involves attending public forums, organizing, and voting.  Those people didn't want to do any of that.  We'll see what happens when and if they mature.  I know a lot of them exchanged numbers.

The friends I had in the movement mostly got involved because they thought it would be fun.  The one true believer said that it was a success due to the groups that will grow out of it, but from what I've seen he's perfectly happy to wait for other people to get on that.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The focus of Occupy shouldn't have been to rabble on about the 1%, unfair practices and sit in the park, but rather something more proactive. Start online boycott petitions for one. Educate people on alternative lending opportunities or banking institutions (like credit unions). Chip away every dollar from them you can, because that's the only thing that registers. Screaming at customers and middle management (who mostly do an honest days work) while the real responsible parties laugh at you helps no one.

Some good things did come occupy. Alternative lending start-ups are more plentiful than there used to be and options have expanded. But, done the right way, so much more could have been accomplished.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: General lack of progress/leadership/uniform goals. They all kinda wanted the same thing. Which was to not get shit on just for being millenials but beyond that answers would vary widely. There wasn't any leadership in the movement either so it fractured and splintered off really easily into smaller groups. Also they didn't really accomplish anything other than getting attention, and its hard to stay devoted to a failing cause.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because it failed to attract what I call the 98.6% aka, "normal people".  *We are not billionaires.  We are not communists.  We are the 98.6%.*  That's the silent rallying cry of a center-right country that sniffed the movement, decided it didn't like the smell, and moved on.  We do want to perp-walk some bankers.  We don't want to destroy capitalism.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The media stopped talking about it completely. It dropped off from the minds of the general public but it continued to exist for quite a while after that. Once the attention was off it only the most enthusiastic and dedicated and as time wore them down the number of people involved just shrank.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: There was no galvanizing force to spur people on. You need a charismatic leader that can drive people forward when progress is slow and resistance mounts.

There was no MLK, no Gandhi of the OWS movement. 

They actively resisted leadership and unity to be honest. Massive mistake.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I can't speak for the rest of the country but I know that the protests ended in Philadelphia when the protesters camping out at city hall were arrested for conspiracy, failure to disperse, and obstruction. It didn't fizzle out here, it was stomped out.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: We want change, because we know what you are doing is wrong, we know what doing it right looks like, but we don't know what needs to be done to make this happen without making things worse.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Seriously?  People are blaming students and hippies?  What happened was the police busted into Zucotti Park and stole everything. Police violence ended Occupy, not students, hippies, or a lack of coherent goals.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: IMO, it wasn't a real movement, just a mix of lazy, entitled, idealistic, naive, or bored people that didn't want to work or had their "I can run America better" dreams.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: They had no clear objective. It got cold outside. Looking like morons marching around and living in tents outside like homeless people gets old eventually.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I like to cite rampant police brutality and a completely unfair media representation that left the general population thinking protesters were scatterbrained unemployable degenerate losers.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Income inequality, and how to address it, is now a mainstay in our national dialogue. 

In other words: Occupy Wall Street worked.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: well... it turned into a giant stinky bum camp in my town. That doesn't really help the legitimacy of the movement.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: If you want to change things, history taught me that you need either one of these: money, or a guillotine.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: There was a militarized police response. Here in Atlanta, the strong arm of the law is what shut things down.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because people cared more about being inconvenienced by hippies than they did with the banks fucking around with money.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because they wore those stupid fucking masks.  Fuck those masks.  Worse then fedoras.  Yeah I said it.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I went to the OWS in New York for the first few weeks, not staying over, but going to photograph the event, talk to people, etc. 

At first it was very well focused against predatory capitalism, the corruption of our government by the bribery of the financial industry, and how the banks and financial industry crashed the economy for their own benefit. 

The first person I talked to was a sixty five year old man, a grandfather of two. There were a wide variety of people who were furious about how badly fucked over the American people were by Wall Street. I think the whole "lazy hippie" thing was just a bullshit meme the media latched on in order to discredit the legitimate complaints people had against corruption and predatory capitalism. Not to say that the hippie contingent wasn't there- it absolutely was- but it wasn't everyone. 

I do have to agree with the people who point out the lack of clear organization. One thing that bothered me about OWS was how resistant it was to organization. It felt more like "We don't want to organize, because that's what we're against, man!" Well, I'm sorry, but that's not how things get done. Although, to be fair, the goals were definitely there- reduce the corruption of government, predatory capitalism, etc. However, as unfortunately seems to happen with any left-leaning demonstration, it slowly turns into a fucking smorgasbord of totally unrelated topics. 

Occupy Wall Street was a very powerful, national movement. I have never in my life seen something like that happen. It was in every major city in the US. And let's not forget that the reason it ended is because it was broken up at 3am by a nationally-coordinated response by local police departments. Was that more of a clean up thing because of loitering, or was it because it was making uncomfortable things part of the national conversation? 

The American people were fucking fed up with how screwed over we've been by the banks and by Wall Street, and our completely corrupted government. Americans are still just as pissed off and fed up. The fact that income inequality, government corruption, and the crimes of Wall Street are such big talking points shows that OWS was at least somewhat effective. 

Sorry for the wall of text.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Real Answer: In some ways, I think the occupy message was successful in that it introduced the discussion of inequality into mainstream popular political discourse. 

Change is incremental, and they couldn't possibly hope for a true revolution, but only that things would start to change and that this important issue, of dramatically increasing inequality be a part of the public discourse. 

The movement "fizzled" because it was decentralized and unfocused to begin with.  There were not central tenets and goals, and its inclusive nature, was in part it's own undoing.  Practically speaking, there were competing interests, priorities, and agendas, blending actual issues, with other unrelated issues.  Too many issues in fact, and too much inclusiveness, which allowed for radical idiots to **look** like radical idiots in pictures and press.  

These failings were explicitly and intentionally seized upon by right wingers to de-legitimize the individuals, and therefore [they hoped] the larger movement.  They were in many ways successful.

Occupy should have been strategic, and embraced nationalism [the Flag, like tea party ideologues], and should have focused on things that are practically achievable, such as a living wage, unions, workers rights, wage theft, and essentially the gains by the middle and working class of the oft recollected *golden* era of the 50s - 70s.  Also, of course, wall street banking and trading reform [hence "occupy wall street"], particularly, responsible banking practices for banks, and perhaps a minuscule transaction fee per trade, to eliminate economies whose function is to feed entirely off transactions [without providing anything [other that wealth extraction] for the extremely rich].

Instead, Occupy came across as a bunch of unemployed, homeless communists, interested in things like redistribution and reparations.  Which was not the reason for their protest, but is how they were branded.

I visited the Wall Street encampments a couple times, and bought groceries for encampments in other cities, at times it was a good scene, and at other times it was a shit show.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: People don't seem to understand the history of the Occupy movement.

The original organizers, a group of mostly anarchists, planned the action methodologically for months.  The initial idea was to physically occupy Wall Street with the goal of making the corruption of our financial system impossible to ignore.

When they weren't able to get into Wall Street, they chose a park nearby and continued with their initial plans.  They showed what a better world could look like.  They offered free food, shelter, medicine, books, and a way of making decisions that would include everyone who participated.  And regardless of how long they were able to keep this going, it was initially very effective.  Enough so to convince close to 1000 cities around the world to try the same thing.

These cities were all autonomous; acting in solidarity with the original protestors in their goals, but acting on their own.  It was never something that was intended to be managed on a global scale.  But that shouldn't take away from the amazing insight of the initial organizers.

There was only one goal by the way:  To get money out of politics.  The fact that this affects so many different avenues -- political relationships with banks, oil companies, weapons manufacturers, etc -- is a problem with our system, not with the protestors themselves.  The media muddled this very simple message, and did so quite effectively.  Yes, you're going to get people at the camp who don't know what they're talking about.  That's why each camp had media liaisons, even though this often was not respected by media outlets.

But regardless of what you think of the movement, I would say that we all are talking about this a lot more today than we were in early 2011.  I am happy with what they were able to accomplish.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Reposting a previous comment I made on this subject:

 >  A lot of people don't realize this, but the thing that really killed the OWS protests was when Darrell Issa hauled the Director of the Park Services in front of the Government Oversight Committee and basically did this exact same thing to him, except the question was about the definition of "camping." Dude was trying his damndest to make it a free speech issue, but Issa was not going to let him off the hook and he finally caved. After that, the Park Service started kicking people out at night and the rest is history.

 >  EDIT: [Here's the video if anyone's interested.](_URL_6_) I slept in McPherson Square while I was working in Congress, and it blows my mind how little anyone talks about this hearing. As far as I'm concerned, this is what ended it, more than any of the other reasons people cite.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: 1) They didn't do anything.  The media was all over this shit trying to get them to say what they're going to do next, but they couldn't, because...

2) What they were protesting was a symptom, not a problem.  Not a single person actively participating in the protest could explain how it was unfair, only that it was unfair, because...

3) The vast majority of the causes of the problem do not impact consumers, only fellow corporations and banks.  By the time the problems trickle down to consumers it is already too late for them to do anything about it.  

So you end up with a group of people in parks all over the country angry about their current situation due to indirect forces that were triggered about a decade prior.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: 1. Complete lack of leadership. 

2. Amorphous, non-specific goals. 

3. Banks don't give a shit about protests; they give a shit about money and the protests did NOTHING to undermine their money. Since many protesters weren't in the 1%, even if all of them divested, it would have had little impact on the financial sector. 

4. People don't back their words with actions when it comes to money. One of the wealthiest people I know was at all of the rallies here in Minnesota and never divested a dime from his bank which was the bank he was protesting outside of. Why? Because his carefree life would be less carefree. 

5. Add all this up and banks and the government know they can just wait it out.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: A lack of leadership, which was a primary building point for the movement (bringing about change through absolute democracy) made the movement muddled.  Police clearing out the encampments and illegally arresting peaceful protesters didn't help either, finally the media helped marginalize the movement as overprivileged suburban hipsters who weren't actually trying to accomplish anything.  Once that view of the movement hit mainstream media, the masses ate it up hook, line and sinker and it torpedoed the little bit of credibility that they had built.  

I don't think it was a perfectly executed movement by any means, but I think it's unfortunate that they were written off so quickly by everyone when it was the corporations they were protesting that turned everyone against them.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Lack of focus.

If you want to protest something that's fine, but you need to focus on the specifically on the aspect you want to change. 

If you don't like the 1%, then you need to identify what it is about that 1% that you don't like. There is a huge difference between someone like Rush Limbaugh and Elon Musk. 

Despite the gulf between their net worth, they both fall into the 1%, however they earned it very differently. So it begs the question, what exactly are you trying to change?
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: A lack of leadership and direction.  You could ask 30 people why they were there and they would give you a range of answers from government corruption to income inequality, corporate corruption, corporate lobbying, and all of the above.  

They were there protesting a lot of what corporate america is but if they had had the organization of a handful of MBAs they would have been much more effective.  Some groups even tried this.  It was pretty comical and I remember the daily show mocking the irony of that.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: i might be able to make this an even shorter TLDR: you can't go up against money without money. It's absurd to fight that which you also need. It's one thing to make a stand. It's another thing to have a plan, and nobody had a plan that was better. We still don't. 

Yes it's unfair that the banks were too big to fail, but they are. Modern society is stuck with them. The question now is: what are we gonna do with them?
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: * No defined long term achievable goals.  
 
* 101 reasons for the movement to happen but no actual plans on fixing any of them.
 
* Plenty of leadership at each Occupy location but no leadership as a whole who could delegate or put anything into action.  After the first few weeks leadership was focused on keeping the occupying of their location, cleaning, maintaining some degree of order, bringing in food, water, supplies, etc. with no forward motion or long term goals.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I was working as a reporter back then and went to one occupy campsite right at the start ....  Asked if someone would give an interview and explain what they were doing. They said no no we don't work like that no one person could tell you... Blah blah.  So I wrote the story about that and ran their audio clip saying basically they didn't know why they were there.  Really heroes their cause in our city lol.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I think it's easy to look back at old footage of the civil rights movement and think that it was just all a bunch of well-meaning people standing in the street until change occurred. That's just ignoring the 99% of the actual hard work that went on behind the scenes - politically, economically, and otherwise. And that last one involves a lot of people being willing to go to jail.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The people themselves.

I was initially skeptical about the movement but when I saw it in action it confirmed all doubts. These were losers. While other people were working, you had these people who were complaining about other people working. 

Their objectives were also irrational. They're complaining about someone else's money. Well, it's their money. What are you complaining about?

They were ineffectual as workers and ineffectual as protesters.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I visited occupy OKC and everyone there seemed like a bunch of incoherent jackholes. Hackey sack was fun though. 

The thing is, in retrospect, it feels like the demonstration was effective in highlighting income inequality. It's a major issue now and I think occupy helped make it that way. 

It's easy to dismissive of the movement itself but it appears to have accomplished something substantial.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: They were looking to hold the banks accountable, but they didn't use their support for anything. In history, there has never been a successful social movement that only assembles and doesn't do anything with their assembly. In essence, their plan followed the same logic as [the underpants gnomes from South Park](_URL_7_):

1. Occupy an area in downtown
2. ???
3. Banks pay for their crimes
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I remember asking what a protester wanted. he went on a 5 minute speech about how we need to change capitalism. when I asked him how to do that he said we need to defund the military and abolish all student loans. when i pointed out he just fired millions of people and stopped millions more from going to college he called me a shill.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because you occupied the parks and parking lots in front of the banks. Next time, occupy their servers, their front yards/driveways, and of course their strip clubs  &  Starbucks.
Stick it to rich people where it hurts.
Otherwise, it looks like a narcissistic display of motivated college kids with tons of time and little tactical knowledge.

Amirite?
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: They didn't know what the hell they were doing, is why. This was basically Occupy Wall Street:

OWS - "We don't like some of the things that are going on!"

Everyone else - "Well, how could we make it better?"

OWS - "Uhm, urm, I don't know, tax the 1%!"

Everyone else - "... "
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Wheres the proof that it fizzled out?  Generalised mass media narratives don't often tell you the full story.  Maybe what we know of the occupy movement was just the beginning, a sort of 'contraction' or birth pang in the conception and development of the movement?

Academics are still researching the subject anyway
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: SJW cultists.  Who else?

[See for yourself.](_URL_8_)

They were too busy with self important posturing and meaningless gestures than... you know... progress.  Actually affecting reality in a productive way.

Turns out in order to do that you need to engage reality.  Who'da thought?
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I've read twice in the last week (somewhere on reddit I believe) that a big reason of the failure was the "takeover" of the movement by (what's known to some as) SJW-type people. Any truth to that claim?
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The beatings, police intimidation, destruction of private property by same said police and continued threats from police and political authorities to the well being of those involved would be a few of the factors I would think.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Life. Nobody is going to protest forever when there are things to enjoy and people to spend time with. Not to mention that it's pretty much pointless to protest big government in the US.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Plus it's only cool for so long and more of them were college students and people in their 20s who like the idea of making a difference without getting their hands dirty.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: People realized that the world isn't black and white, and that it's childish to think you can blame one group of people for such a widespread problem?

...no? Ok I'll go then.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I followed the social media stuff surrounding chicago area participants.  They were frazzled about every social injustice ever.  So therefore absolutely literally nothing was in focus or followed up upon.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Market signals demonstrated to them that their message was not shared by a significant portion of the US and they realized they couldn't buy more starbucks without a job.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Could be that while they were out in the parks protesting, willing members of the labor force were taking the jobs they all felt they were entitled to.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: I think when they started defecating in buckets, not showering for weeks on end, being drunk and harassing the public was the end of them for me.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: My town had an "Occupy" movement, kind of still does, but it devolved into a shit stained homeless tenement within the first month.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: There are a lot of compelling arguments and reasons in this comment thread but the biggest reason it fizzled is it was stupid.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: The police kicked the protesters out of Zucotti Park. And they patrol constantly to make sure nobody comes back. That's the only reason.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: All of these answers are wrong. The real reason is because it wasn't violent. 

Peace is for slaves. Violence is for masters.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: They were dirt-bag opportunists/anarchists at best, or paid protestors.   When it stopped being 'fun' they went back to their parents houses.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Internet/armchair activism that claimed to speak for the actual occupy movement, and got laughed out of existence.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Because these people are fucking idiots.

Oh sorry, you're 5 - Those people were really really stupid.
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Probably something to do with America's 5 second attention spa... What were we talking about?
question: What were the driving factors that caused the Occupy Wall Street movement to fizzle out? answer: Weather and lack of a purpose really.  What was their end goal?
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The government did "bail out" homeowners, but not by handing them money (which would be impossible to account for).  

Under a government program, I was able to refinance my mortgage despite being moderately underwater.  My monthly payments went down 25%.  My interest rate is among the lowest in US history, which was also due to government action.  Around the same time, there were huge government incentives for first time home buyers.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: It was a loan. And its all paid back with interest, for the record.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I'll try to be unbiased.

If all these big corporations, including banks, weren't bailed out a lot of them would have gone bankrupt and it would probably turn the recession into a depression from all those workers at those companies losing their jobs and the general panic it would cause. If they bailed out the people instead, chances are the people would have the tendency to just see it as free money and not do anything useful with it. 

Now, if they gave money to stop their foreclosure instead, it would have probably cost a lot of money. The bail out most likely just covered the banks' losses. But to keep the houses, it would have cost a lot more.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: UGH, all these answers aren't really correct.  The reason is because we made the banks take it as a loan, to be paid back.  Homeowners who already weren't paying their loans would have not paid another loan back.  The truth is that the banks are already paid up, with interest, so the government made money on the deal.

[Source.](_URL_1_)

EDIT:  /u/Helmet-GLA was right, but I didn't see his [comment](_URL_0_) before mine.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Wow, the loons are really coming out in force for this thread. The biggest reason: We were in a liquidity crisis, where banks need cash to meet obligations, or they are at risk of failing. Giving that money to homeowners to pay the banks through their mortgage would get the money into the system very, very slowly; mortgages are small slices of payments over 30 years. 

The banks were ready to fail in weeks, not years, and a failing bank would have a cascading effect on the financial system. The results of more bank failures would have been catastrophic. 

The bailouts were intended only to restore liquidity, therefore preventing a complete economic collapse, and then get that money paid back.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: This question is a lot easier to answer if we clear up what a bailout is. The media loves using the word 'bailout' because it confuses people. 'Bailout' means loan. However, people interpret the word to mean 'handout'. Loans need to be repaid, handouts do not. The media uses this word because they know it can infuriate readers when they see the headline, making them more likely to read the article.

So now that this has been cleared up, your question really becomes "Why didn't the federal government lend money to home owners instead of banks?"

This becomes an easy question to answer. There are many ways to answer this question but fundamentally, loans needs to be repaid. If the government lends out money and it's not paid, the bill gets picked up by the taxpayers. The government only lent money to companies who they felt can pay it back. The ones that they felt could not pay it back did not receive any loans. (Lehman, Bear Sterns, are among the biggest)

Edit - Lots of comments are insisting that the loans were done at 0 interest rates or 'handed out'. The government lent money to banks in the form of purchasing preferred shares. Here is an article describing the 8% preferred share deal with Citi.
_URL_2_
Preferred shares pay dividends, meaning the payments are post tax. An 8% post tax dividend payment is equivalent to maybe ~11% pretax interest payment, so these are very expensive loans. Banks "pay back" the loan by purchasing the preferred shares back from the government.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: ELI5:

You've asked your parents to give you money to open a lemonade stand, and you spend the money with the expectation you'll earn it back.

Your parents have lost their job and now want you to give them back their money :(. But you've already spent it!

Well, you have grandparents who are willing to give you money! Let's ask them. But instead, they give it to the parents since the real problem isn't your lemonade stand (which maybe you shouldn't have bought so much ice for that melted away that now you can't recover the costs for...), but the parents not being able to pay their bills so that you can now keep your stand AND your parents are not in deep water anymore.

Furthermore, you being able to keep your lemonade stand instead of selling it off at desperate prices to pay back your parents will generally be good for your parents too since you're still earning income.

Grandparents are awesome.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Serious answer:  Because the banker bailout mastermind Henry Paulson was CEO of international bank Goldman Sachs, immediately before being appointed Treasury Secretary.  Goldman Sachs received $10B in the bailout.  Paulson was worth $700M at the time.  Homeowners not being able to pay a mortgage were not and are not in his sphere of influence.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The realistic answer to this is that the sum of money used in bank bail outs was less than all the money needed to deal with the foreclosures.

Now obviously you would argue "well why didn't they just save as many foreclosures as they could with that money, the banks get it in the end".  

To which the answer is simply its overt complexity and the fact it would cost more money to give out that much money, track that money, make sure people actually spent it on foreclosures, etc.  Not only this by the time the banks got it there would be fees and such of there own further reducing this sum of money.  

Then there is the more direct concern that keeping major lending/financial institutions up and going helped keep other businesses not directly related up and going.  If lenders are functional a business temporarily in the red can get a loan and recover, as can others.   The direct "bail out" also allowed the banks to have more capital to directly lend in these situations aswell.  

Hypothetically in a perfect world what you said could be done, but we arn't in a perfect world the very fact the foreclosures and recession happened more than proves this.  Instead of a very complex and much more expensive route that saved some homeowners, they opted for the direct approach that best kept society going which was also much cheaper.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because home owners don't write laws, the banks do
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The government did help out homeowners as well. When the government took control for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac they introduced the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP). This allowed home owners that had a mortgage that was backed by Fannie and Freddie to refinance their mortgage to a significantly lower interest rate no matter their equity position in their home. Most of these refinances were done without even having an appraisal done. I will also point out that this program allowed people that had damaged or not perfect credit to get a lower rate that they would not normally qualify for. 

The government also helped VA and FHA home owners, since those are government backed loans as well, with what is called a VA or FHA streamline refinance. These programs allowed people to refinance as well without have to do an appraisal as well as not having to credit qualify. That means that the banks didn't even pull their credit and offered them a lower interest rate.   

Aside from these programs the government has been buying bonds and mortgage backed securities to keep the interest rate down for the public to be able to refinance of purchase affordable housing during the recession. 

Tl;dr: HARP program and VA  &  FHA government refinance program helped the general public refinance to lower rates.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I don't want a hand-out. I bought a house in 2006 that lost 60% of it's value in 2009. Half the homes on my street became vacant. Squatters, vermin, the yards filled with glimmering roaches at night. I want my mortgage adjusted to reflect this shitty reality. I want these god damn people to give back the VALUE they stole, the INVESTMENT that's coming out of my fucking ass. I'll be stuck in this upside house for A DECADE! Fuck me fuck me fuck me fuck me fuck me fuck me fuck me fuck me fuck me fuck me hooray!
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Don't make the mistake of thinking that the federal government just gave money to banks. Banks were obligated in a number of ways to pay that money back, and so far the government has received [more money](_URL_3_) back from TARP bailouts than it ever loaned out. In fact, the bank/finance portion of TARP has turned about a $28.5 billion profit for the U.S. Treasury.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because if the problem had just been the underwater homes, it would have been fine.

The problem, to make a very long story short, is that banks all pacakaged the homes into investment securities called Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs). In order to make those securities "safe", they were backed up by a form of insurance on those investment securities called Credit Default Swaps (CDS).

Basically, all the banks figured that with enough mortgages bundled together in CDOs, with enough CDS insurance being sold on them, nothing could go wrong and they could make insane amounts of money. Which they did. They assumed that basically the entire housing market wouldn't collapse all at once.

But when the housing market did go belly up, that meant it wasn't just the value of the houses that was underwater. It meant that all those investment securities were sour, but more importantly that the CDS insurance contracts had to be paid off.

Only problem is, there was more money owed on the CDS insurance contracts than there is actual money in the world. There was $70 trillion in CDS obligations. Basically, all of Wall Street was screwed infinite times over. And if Wall Street went bankrupt, no more loans of any kind to anyone. And then poof--goodbye economy.

So the banks had to be bailed out. The problem is that we gave them a blank check, essentially, when we should have done what was necessary then taken them over and/or broke them up into little pieces.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The short answer is the bailout money was much much more likely to be repaid when given to banks. The bailout was an emergency loan to replenish short term cash supply and was to be paid back in full. Banks could repay because they were, on the whole, not in debt. However, home owners who would default were, and the extra cash will only increase their debt burden.

What people don't realise is that the bailout money is already [a profitable investment for the government](_URL_4_). The current net profit stands at $12 billion, and the money hasn't been paid back in full yet. This directly benefits the tax payers.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Some have had a go at answering this question but I don't think anyone has hit the nail on the head. I shall give it a shot

In actual fact the government did think about doing this, bailing out the home-owners instead of the banks. However, there are number of problems that they ran into that made it impractical at best.

1. **Complexity.** Who gets the bailout, do people who took NINJA (No Income No Job or Asssets) get help? Do people who took out a mortgage for a second home get a mortgage? People who lost their job indirectly because of the crisis and fell behind on their mortgage do they get hope? Was there fraud sure, but a lot of people from bank CEO's, to loan originators, to the people who got mortgages and then foreclosed on made a lot of stupid decisions. The government would have to decide who deserved to be bailed out and who didn't (a decision that is potentially politically explosive) and how much help they would get.

1. **Time.** This was a fast moving crisis, there was no time to put together the type of legislation and then agency action that a mortgage bailout program would have necessitated. Remember how long it took to get the stimulus money out the door, and that was fast by government standards.

1. **The crisis was way bigger than mortgages**. It may have started there but by the peak of the crisis the global economy was at risk. Credit is the oil that lubricates the modern global economy, almost every corporation or company has debt. From a small business with a credit card or small credit line, to the biggest companies like Apple or Microsoft who have tonnes of cash. Most companies do not hold that much cash on hand, it doesn't make sense, why hold cash when you can put it in short term treasuries where it will earn more than the rate of inflation. Consequently most companies take out a short term loan to meet payroll, buy new stock etc they pay it back within days or weeks but it is very handy. At the height of the crisis these credit lines froze, CEO's of blue chip companies like GE were calling the treasury secretary saying they wouldn't be able to meet payroll. Companies big and small around the world were facing the same problem, solvent good companies would have to lay off people or close because of credit freeze brought on by a Mortgage crisis. Something had to be done.

TL:DR - Bailing out homeowners is too complex, would have taken too much time and **The crisis wasn't just a mortgage crisis, its most dangerous aspect was the credit crunch, which put the global economy at risk, would not have been solved by bailing out home-owners**.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: THEY DID.

The Government forgave income tax on forgiven mortgage debt. This amounted to a $1 Trillion handout, considering that there was about $4 Trillion in mortgages held by deadbeats.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: This is a two parter:  
1. A big part of the reason for the bailout was to unfreeze credit markets. Banks weren't lending because they needed the cash to replace losses from nearly worthless assets backed by junk mortgages. Businesses need access to credit to function so the banks got money with the idea that they'd actually lend it out. That was an immediate problem which needed to be addressed somehow or we would have had a cascade of failing businesses.    
2. You might be asking, "Then why didn't the government offer to make mortgage payments which would go to the banks eventually anyway and kill two birds with one stone?" Most of the mortgages weren't held by the banks. They serviced the loans which means they handled the administrative activities but most of those mortgage backed securities were actually owned by institutional investors (pension funds, some exchange traded funds, etc.).  

Now for commentary:  
Another plan was for tax payers to buy out failing banks so we'd get some equity out of the deal and get our money back when we sold it back off at something like an IPO but somebody yelled "SOCALISM!" so we couldn't do that. Iceland did and they didn't burst into flames or anything.  

Part of the reason this all got so out of hand was that banks gave mortgages to people they knew couldn't afford them because they were taking fees origination fees and selling the actual notes off to someone else. They didn't have that much skin in the game until it became obvious that these were increasingly worthless and they couldn't sell them anymore. When the scam was running well they convinced crooked ratings agencies to give inflated grades to their junk securities made of bad mortgage bundles and used those grades to buy insurance backed by pretty much nothing (AIG).
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The crash wasn't directly caused by people foreclosing, it was caused by the banks crashing AFTER so many mortgages were foreclosed leaving them with a bunch of properties which became toxic when the real estate bubble burst.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Get ready for a lot of angry people who know very little about economics
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Homeowners don't make campaign contributions like bankers do....
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Looks like a lot of people don't know jack about the financial system in this thread. 

Giving bailout money was not free money- it came with the stipulation of either part government ownership of the organization I do believe or it was essentially a loan that had to be paid back. Over half of the loans paid out have been paid back( 384B dollars out of 609B). Thanks to gaining equity in some companies the government made over 200 billion dollars in dividends in those companies. All in all the government has actually profited 12 billion dollars from the bailout. 

That is something they could have never done giving money to homeowners. Additionally the money to banks was necessary because our entire capitalistic economy thrives at the present time through a delicate, intricate, and powerful shadow banking system in which assets and security are traded in enormous amounts not only to create profit but to create liquidity and leverage in the system such that everyone these days can get a loan.

 If they didn't bailout a lot of these mortgage-backed security holding banks, the markets would have essentially froze as credit lines were stopped due to risk factors being too high. This would cause a domino effect through the markets that would essentially create a new great depression. Paying mortgage holders instead sounds good but the system would still have collapsed as 1) The size of the mortgage market would have made the bailout of 600 billion dollars a drop in the bucket. Outstanding mortgages in America in 2008 were over 10 trillion dollars in value and in the same year over 9% of mortgages in the U.S. were delinquent and failing. So right there over 900 billion dollars needed to fill that gap. At the banking level, money gets multiplied thanks to things like fractional reserve banking and the fact money can be moved rapidly and easily through different assets where it is needed using the shadow-banking intermediaries so the 600b the government dolled out had a stronger net effect than paying out the 600b of the 900b+ mortgages that were default. 2) paying out the mortgages was a much more complex issue with a  lot more record keeping and needed the government to directly pay the mortgage holders because people have a habit of spending money poorly when it arrives in a lump sum(see: tax returns). 

We are not Iceland or a smaller country, and pinning which executives in an organization knowingly took advantages in the credit loopholes we have in the U.S. is nigh impossible. We don't convict men who we can't find guilty in this country so charging the bankers with this probably would not have stuck. I wouldn't have minded seeing the VPs and CEOs of some of the most guilty banks put on trial and possibly convicted for their organizations doings though. But that would have only increased the instability of the country and we have a system literally thousands of times more complex and bigger than Icelands, meaning it's not so simple as throwing a few bankers in jail. I do think they should have been restricted in gifting themselves bonuses and whatnot but obviously the gov't wasn't interested in pissing off too many folks on Wall St. and the relative money involved was nothing compared to the size of the whole ordeal. 

There's a lot more to it and this isn't exactly right but it should be in the ballpark. Bottom line is people criticizing this event who haven't bothered to study its details aren't much different than creationists who criticize evolution. You never have put the time in to understand and you see it in a way most folks in finance do not yet they are the ones who understand it, at least better than the layman. 

TLDR: the Bailout has actually been paid back with profit, something paying out the the populace could never achieve. On top of that there was more mortgage debt by over 33% than was paid out to the banks so you can't go and just randomly pay off 66% of mortgage defaults and leave the others to deal with their misfortune.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Why should someone who is renting pay taxes to keep a homeowner in their home? Why should someone who saved up enough equity that their home wasn't underwater pay taxes to keep a homeowner who bought a home with zero down? That was the significant obstacle that couldn't be surpassed even if this was a good idea.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The government can regulate how the banks use the bailout money; they cannot regulate how individuals would use the funds.  A lot of Americans would not use the money for its intended purpose which would essentially compound the problem.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: look at all these people taking loans that they cannot afford, setting themselves up for financial ruin if the slightest thing goes wrong. let's give them money, they sure seem to know how to handle it.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because you (homeowners in general) aren't paying your congressman/representative fat stacks of cash to do whatever you want them to do.

Amazing how simple it is when you just cut out all the bullshit rhetoric.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: They did. 

And also the "bail out" of banks was loan, that was paid back with interest.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: There are several reasons why they did this.

First of all, it's important to understand *why* the government bailed out the banks, and how they did it as well.  The TARP program guaranteed large loans to several investment banks (like Goldman or Merril Lynch) and savings  &  loan banks (like Bank of America).  They didnt' do this out of the goodness of their heart, and they didn't do it because they thought those companies were run by "good guys".  No, they did it because the US and World economy depends on banks.  They provide liquidity, and they are an essential part of the engine that drives economic growth: CREDIT.  If they hadn't bailed those guys out, then the 5 largest investment banks in the country would have gone to zero.  The stock market could've ceased to exist.  All that money you've got in your 401-K?  Bye bye.  And if they hadn't bailed out the savings  &  loan banks?  Well, let me just quote Michael Lewis on that.  He put it best in **The Big Short**:

 >  *When banking stops, credit stops, and when credit stops, trade stops, and when trade stops - well, the city of Chicago only had eight days of chlorine on hand for its water supply.  Hospitals ran out of medicine.  The entire modern world was premised on the ability to buy now and pay later.*

So we didn't bail these companies out because we liked them.  In fact we didn't like them one bit.  They'd stupidly taken **massive, terrifying risks** and abrogated their responsibilities as market makers.  Their recklessness gave birth to the phrase *Too Big to Fail*.  But at a certain point, that's bygones.  Damage done.  If they go under, we all go under with them.

_____________________

Now, why didn't we just pay off all the homes?  Well keep in mind that when a bank (or the holder of a mortgage-backed bond) forecloses on a house, they don't lose 100% of their investment.  They lose about half.  After all, the house **is still there**, doing what it's supposed to do, which is to serve as collateral for the loan.  They still lose 50 cents on the dollar, due to a variety of reasons (the time the homeowner is making no payments, the cost of the damages as they trash the place on the way out, the cost of selling the house, the loss taken by a motivated seller.)  So if you want to bail out the homeowner instead you're immediately talking about **double** the cost.

Also, the government didn't just **hand** the banks money.  I mean, they *kinda* did, but not, strictly speaking.  They extended a loan, interest free.  Now, when you're talking about *that much money*, an interest free loan is pretty goddamn valuable.  You take a loan of, say, 10 billion dollars over one year, interest free, and you put it into US T-Bills, getting, say 1%, and you're still talking about $100 million in risk-free profit.  And that's what those investment banks did, really.  They just took their interest-free money, put it into safe bonds, and pocketed the interest to pay off their bad investments.

It's also important to realize that while the these investment banks did take a huge bath on these bad loans, they were only exposed to a tiny fraction of the **total** bad mortgage bonds out there.  These guys knew they were trading in crap.  That's why they moved it to other investors almost immediately.  But that's the problem - the "almost".  They couldn't foist it all off on suckers, and they got stuck with a tiny fraction of it.  And they tiny fraction was nearly enough to destroy the world economy.

*They were cynical enough to know they were trading in crap, but not cynical enough to know how crappy it really was.*

In a very real sense the Goldmans and Merrils and Bear-Sterns of the world were playing hot potato with every mortgage bond.  The only problem is they never imagined that the whole thing could come apart so rapidly that they'd be stuck holding some of those hot potatoes.

Finally, it's almost impossible to take a mortgage bond and trace your way **back** to the homeowner behind it.  Not only are there thousands of them bundled up behind it, but privacy laws make it difficult to get those names.  And then there are CDO's, - GOOD GOD, the CDO's!  They're just sliced up tranches from *other* mortgage bonds.  How do you track those?

All this adds up to mean that paying off the homeowners would be:

* a) Much more expensive.  Like, 20-100 times more expensive, I would imagine.  Possibly more.
* b) Impossible to do anyway, at least in any meaningful fashion that would save the banks behind them.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: All of the top answers here are shit


OK

HERE WE GO!

When mommy and daddy pay the electric bill, they take their paychecks and put them in the bank, then write a check against the money in the bank.

The men and women at the bank make loans on the money and pay interest to the people who put their money in there.  See, not everyone needs their money at the same time, so it's sort of like juggling.

When banks juggle money it's called fractional reserve banking.  See the bank doesn't loan YOUR money to people to pay you interest, you always have your money, because some people won't be using all of their money.

It's like when a clown juggles pineapples, on average he always weighs as much as a clown plus 3 pineapples even though 2 are always in the air.

Now the problem is not everyone puts money in the bank and then writes checks to pay their bills like mommy and daddy.   Some people like McDonald's don't put in any money at all.  What a McDonald's has is like the credit card, but much bigger.  They buy things on the credit card and pay it off.  That's where some of the interest money comes from.

What happened with the banking thing is the congress where they make the laws said that a lot of people had to get loans to buy houses.  

So many people bought so many houses so fast there weren't a lot of houses to go around.  This made houses more expensive.

This created artificial wealth and that's what we call a bubble.

When the houses decreased in value because people who shouldn't be given loans were given loans, all of that artificial wealth went away at once.  

So banks didn't have enough money, because a lot of money suddenly disappeared.  

The federal government had to loan money to the banks so when mommy and daddy wrote the check to the electric company it would be worth money, so the electric company could buy more coal to make more electricity.  Also the McDonald's was able to buy more coffee from south america so mommy wouldn't be cranky.

When the banks recovered they paid the government back, and if Obama wasn't such a sucker he would have made a net profit on the deal, but he also bailed out GM and they paid him back in stock, which means the government owns part of a failing business.  Also they gave the government non preferred stock which is like owning the litterbox, but not the kitty.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: There are a lot of incredibly wrong answers in here and I think you're slightly misinformed based on the question. 

**Let's start at the beginning:**

The recent recession was at the fault of both banks and people. People were starting to purchase homes they couldn't realistically afford. In return, the mortgage payments people owed on their homes were over half their salary. The recommendation is 1/3 of their salary. 

**What went wrong?**

Mortgage companies were stupid enough to allow people to purchase these homes. For example, at the time the recession happened I was approved to buy a home for $300,000 when my salary was only $30,000/yr. Really bad idea. Eventually, it caught up to the mortgage companies and they had more debt than income. 

**Then what?**

AIG amongst many other large companies started declaring bankruptcy.  Some took government loans and went through a restructure, taking advantage of bankruptcy protection laws.

Laws were placed to have more strict regulations, accounting practices, and loaning practices. 

**The bailout - the answer to your question**

The idea behind giving people money, not just home owners, was to jumpstart the economy. People would spend this money on electronics, food, or anything to help prevent businesses shutting down.

Giving money to people who were already foreclosing on a home would've only helped them for that one payment. Then what? They're in the same situation. 

The plan, however, somewhat backfired, but not entirely. Some people put money towards their foreclosing home and others just invested the money (like myself).
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The government acted as investor for 9 Trillion of the 12.1 Trillion involved in the bailout. Many of these investments have turned out to be money-makers for the government, lowering the overall amount of spending with the bailout. With households, there was no clear opportunity for the government to get their investment back. We would have each* gotten an unsecured, $40K loan. 

I agree that the bailout was the wrong move, not because of the way the bailout has performed (better than expected), but because of the precedence this set. Right now, our savvy business folks are knuckle-deep in shadow banking in China and another housing bubble in the US, predicated on private equity purchasing rental properties. How do I know that? Because these are both high-risk, high-return activities. Seeking the highest returns is a requirement of any public company (thanks for all the fees and dangerous incentives 401(k)!), so they *have* to get involved with stupid shit like this. Plus, we not only *told* them that we'd bail them out, we *proved it*. Bonuses for good performance, bailouts for bad performance. Oh, what the hell; keep that bonus. Uncle Sugar ain't mad.

*assuming every one of US's 300 million citizens were eligible and received an equal portion of the 12.1 trillion.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I don't know. 

But to give an example of another nation bailing out its citizens: Back in 99', Japan gave its qualifying citizens an equivalent to $200 (20x$10 notes) in what was the equivalent to gift cards to spend in stimulating the local economy. 
The gift cards were regional, so you couldn't use it outside your local area, and no change was given so it couldn't be converted to cash, and it encouraged spending more than the $200 amount. 

My mom bought it off me (she didn't qualify) $ for $ so she could use it for groceries, and I put it away in my savings account. I was 15 at the time.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: i hate to be that guy.... but you guys should really do some more research on exactly what is going on between the government and the banks right now before forming such an icorrect oppinion of the current state of mortgage lending banks....... a FEW of the titanic sized banks recieved a bail out, and that was to preserve the economy.  

Research the consent order, and the settlement agreements that several banks have taken with the government. youll see that the banks arent recieveing any bailouts as a whole, and the majority of them are getting massive fines (cumulative totals in the billions).
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Duh! AYFKM! If you gave the quantitative easing money to the people it would be welfare and socialism by giving it to banks it is free enterprise and capitalism. I believe that the money for (QE) would equate to about $45,000 for every breathing U.S. American citizen, now how could have that helped the economy? C'mon, giving it to banks was the obvious choice.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because the government convinced banks to give sub-prime loans (loans that people probably can't pay) in order to boost the economy in the 90's (several banks didn't want to, but were pressured to do so) and when people stopped paying their mortgages the banking system was in big trouble, so the government (which created the problem) fixed it by giving them bailout funds.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: There have been enough posts answering this question. Nevertheless the movie "Too Big to Fail" (2011) is a great one that explains and shows insight to the economic collapse.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because the people that make those decisions have a much closer and more intimate connection with people on the banking end than people on the middle-class-homeowner end.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Comments here are terrible, filled with ignorant comments from people with no financial background and a few crackpot theories
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because the bankers hold much more power then broke home-owners. It is pretty simple.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: So we wouldn't reward people for taking on a mortgage they couldn't afford.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Giving out money isn't the problem, problem is how do you do it accurately, with accountability, track the money and ensure it can be traced and returned back if required. 

If money is given to home owners following happen:

     * A lot of people will fake the need for bailout; there isn't enough resources to go around tracking who's right and who's not. You can see this from amount of verification that is required now for purchase/refinance a mortgage.

     * There is no way to accurately measure how much money is needed NOW, over next few years and over all as home owners will overtime come out and make requests for bailout.

     * There is no way to qualify a borrower; can you bailout a guy who's 50 LTV on a $100k mortgage, or 110 LTV on a 110k mortgage, or 95 LTV on a $1,000,000 mortgage? What about credit scores, other assets, etc. etc. 

     * There is no current system in place to qualify a borrower for bailout; a system needs to be developed, tested, implemented, etc. This makes it possible for lots of risk.

There are other points to consider but you get the point. It takes a lot of housekeeping to qualify borrowers.

On the other hand, if you bailout banks following happen:

     * Banks already have a system in place to qualify/screen borrowers income, assets, mortgage, that can be re-deployed to qualify if a borrower requires bailout.

     * Banks report net income on expenses (loss) and profit. If everyones paying bills on time, expenses are lower, profits are higher. If more and more borrowers need bailout, banks will report higher losses and lesser profit. Thereby you can easily calculate how much money is required for bailout. I say easily because the bailout is in hundreds of billions of dollars over millions of borrowers. 

     * Ultimately banks are setup for peoples benefits. Why throw out people from their homes leaving lower house values when you can keep people in their homes, let them have a roof and also maintain the asset owned by banks. Banks will overtime get through the number of bailouts in a semi-manageable manner.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: When the federal reserve was created, one of its purposes was to stop bank runs, which are known to cause economic collapses. The fed was only designated to help out commercial banks in these situations. This happened after the depression of 1902. 
In 2008, AIG insured not only the majority of the houses in America but they also insured pensions, life insurance policies, and basically anything they could "securitize" or "back with insurance".  
When the collapse happened a domino effect occurred on investment banks that held these different securities. Lehman Brothers was the first to fail and Hank Paulson allowed that to happen. Lehman had what was called toxic assets on their balance sheet. The toxic assets were a bunch of abandoned houses that no one wanted, due to bad debt not being paid by homeowners. The entire housing market started to slide and that's where most Americans invest their money. 
Once Ole Hank and the Fed continued to watch the markets crash they realized AIG and GM was headed for collapse. 
I can't really help you fathom the true impact of what would've happened, had those two companies sank. I understand a fraction of it, and it's all ready become quite clear that the proverbial shit would've hit the fan. 
So the government bought the toxic assets from the remaining surviving banks. Hence TARP. Toxic Asset Relief Program. 

Serendipitously enough, the only reason there was a dispute over the bailout was because the banks bailed out, were investment banks and not commercial. Nowadays the fed does not discriminate between commercial or investment when deciding on a bailout. 
ON THE PLUS SIDE we made money on the deal and no one starved to death. The money given to the banks, was not a free loan, and has been paid back with interest. I think GM and a few other companies have yet to pay there portions back, though we've still made money off the entire bailout. 
Considering the implications, Hank Paulson saved our asses, and yet he's hated all over America.  

Reference: I'm a graduating finance major with a minor in economics.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: As explained elsewhere, they did.

That said, I think you need an ELI5 for the reason for the bailout - it WAS NOT a result of people not paying their mortgages.

Here goes: The total value of all US sub-prime mortgages peaked at around $1.5T, the bailout was around $9T, all told. Why? Because banks not only bundled and traded bad mortgages and claimed (with the help of ratings agencies) that they were good (AAA), they also bought insurance (called OTC derivatives) on those bad mortgages and then traded those insurance policies on a separate, unregulated market. That market became so big it was estimated to be 6-11 times the size of the stock market.

So, when the bubble burst, not only did banks have a bunch of overvalued mortgages on their books, they also held derivatives that were only as valuable as the stability of their backer, which in the event of a crash like 2008 meant their value could've been zero (hence an insurance company, AIG, getting a massive bailout package). In addition, since banks felt they'd protected themselves from risk by purchasing these derivatives (insurance), the ratio of what they were lending to what cash they had on hand was much, much higher than it should have been, causing them to be illiquid in the event of a crash.

I'm not sure any 5 year old could ever conceptualize this, but it was worth a try. Further reading below.
_URL_5_

_URL_6_
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The housing crisis was caused when WASHINGTON told Freddy and Fanny to change the mortgage lending standards.  EDS reprogrammed the computers that did the calculations at Washington's direction.    Newt Gingrich and Bill Clinton were involved in the decision.  Everything that happened after that was just downwind of their decisions.  If not bank X, Bank Y was definitely going to underwrite mortgages backed by Fannie and Freddy.  The same banks were going to realize they were crap and sell them off.  None of this was good, but Washington was the root of the housing crisis evil.  Newt and Bill and Washington saw the .Com cash cow as eternal "good times"  ... They wondered how they could milk even MORE money out of the economy.   They came up with the awesome 'Give everyone and their dog" a mortgage plan.  And we have what we have here now.  15 years later, so many houses were built that even those who could afford their mortgages saw their home values depressed by ~50%.  In the typical 30 year mortgage, to pay of 50% of the principal balance takes about 20 years. .  .so therefore, we won't fully be out of the housing crisis for about 5 more years.  Forget the left or the right.  Washington can't get out of it's own way.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because if the banks stop lending a lot more people than just homeowners are going to be under the water. When business is done on an industrial scale there is usually a gap in between when goods are delivered and when they are paid for by a company. If you sell 8000 wigets to staples it is possible that Staples Will not be paying you for one month ( the period if often longer but let's just say a month for an example) during that month you still have to pay all of your overhead costs such as rent, water bill, heating, or electricity. Not to mention all of the employees who have to paid monthly. How do businesses get around this problem? Banks. Banks loan money to businesses and then make a profit doing so. If major banks had gone down it would have affected much more of the economy. The reason that the government bailed out the banks is because of lessons that we learned from previous financial downturns.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: When the crash happened, the immediate threat to the entire economy was the disappearance of inter bank lending. At the end of each day, all the banks settle up, and borrow/repay each other for the days activity. Even well run solvent banks are dependent on this system functioning smoothly to exist.

When the crisis started, banks stopped lending/settling, threatening a chain reaction of events that could have destroyed the entire banking system, including the good ones.

The bailout had to inject money immediately and directly into that cycle in order to prevent total collapse. Bailing out homeowners directly would not have gotten that done, as it would have taken months/years to take effect.

The bailout is often characterized as a gift to the banks, the reality is that it was addressing a problem that threatened every single one of us. Bad banks were eventually closed/dissolved (several hundred in fact) and the bailout loans have been repaid with interest.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I don't really agree with the reasoning. I bought in 2005, when the market was peaking here. I made every mortgage payment, but was house poor. Thanks for that buying advice, internet/real estate agent/finance gurus. Due to some homeowner issues (maintenance I couldn't afford), my housing value fell to where I couldn't get it refinanced. I'm still in the house. The value is still in the toilet. But thank GOD the banks were saved. They should have been allowed to fail and the mortgages they had no business giving out should have been absolved. Or better yet, take all that wonderful stimulus money and apply it to my mortgage to help bring me back out from underwater so I can refinance. Get me back to discretionary income levels and I'll spend it on the economy. (IMO) No, instead we just propped back up a bad business model: a housing correction is bound to happen again.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The short of it is that some banks were already going under by the time they got bailed out. These banks were heavily invested into housing, housing had already crashed, and their portfolios had dumped. Investor confidence was at a low not seen since the great depression and there were multiple bank runs (Bears Stearns, Lehman Bros.). Giving money to home owners would have prevented additional forclosures, but would have been more of a mid-term solution. We were literally a day or two away from a total meltdown when we bailed out the banks. The bailout was an emergency measure that had to go straight to the source to prevent additional bank runs. Credit default liability also played a role here, since nobody really knew just how far in the red the banks were or even what banks were at risk.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Giving bailout directly to the home owners, would be directly rewarding those who made the bad choice of borrowing more than they could afford to pay back.  (It's not entirely their fault for making that choice, our culture encourages everyone to borrow as much money as possible, basically so they can sell you more stuff.  And the banks allowed them to do it because they're greedy and want the interest.)

If a bank goes under, on the other hand, anyone who had money in that bank suffers, including people who were smart, and didn't borrow stupidly large amounts of money.

While giving money to the bank, doesn't teach the bank any lessons... it at least protect those homeowners who made better choices from becoming collateral damage.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I got the less popular $7500 first time homebuyers credit of 2008.  I have to pay it all back.  $500 every tax year for 15 years or pay the remainder of what's due if I make a profit on my house.  (Basically an interest free loan). It was a real kick in the dick when they decided to just give away $8000 a year later.  Every year I file my taxes I hope the government absolves the debt of those who bought a year early.  Spoiler Alert... Not this year.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: OP, there are going to be a lot of explanations informed by what the masters of spin in DC and in Wall Street put out for the rest of us to squabble over.

If you want an actual explanation, read Neil Barofsky's "Bailout." He was the Special Inspector General for TARP (one of the bailout programs), and actually a reasonably unbiased outsider. The book is actually a great read: Barofsky develops it like a narrative, with a storyline, character development, etc.

I hope you get to this comment!
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: What really grinds my gears are the 3 homes on my very small street that sold for $60k below their original price. That absolutely killed my home value and it will take an EXTREMELY long time to not be upside down on my mortgage even after it's paid off. The bail out may have been great for people in trouble but outside of lower interest rates it did nothing for the people who were able to pay their bills and in the end actually hurt them.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I am no expert, but in my mind  point being missed when supporting the bailouts is the individual who should be accountable and suffer loss.

We always say we bailed out "the banks". We bailed out very wealthy people who did the wrong thing. Sure "the bank" paid back the loan. That was easy enough apparently and the wealthy who made the bad decisions got nice salaries being saved by all of us making a fraction.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because banks own both political parties, and it's always easier for politicians to protect the status-quo than to come up with an innovative, just, solution that might rock the boat.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Imagine your allowance was a million dollars. That's pretty nice, right? Eventually you hire other people to do your chores and you just keep the rest.

After some time passes you find that you have more money than you can spend for the rest of your life. In fact, you have more money than all your friends can spend in their lives too. 

This would be great for a few decades but eventually you may wonder "What's next?" Well, some other folks thought that too. They came up with a way to turn their money in to power and influence. 

They accomplished this by becoming a bank. They convinced politicians to make their bank the official unofficial bank of the United States. They're allowed to create and destroy US currency any time they would like to give loans to people.

Of course, some people were wise to their ways. They did what they could to avoid borrowing money and going in to debt. The bank didn't like that very much at all. 

Over time, the rottenness of this bank creeped in to other banks. This central bank gobbled them up, replacing those banks with copies of itself that looked like the old bank. This led to an entire country of people - who were one time the wealthiest, most prosperous nation in the entire world, becoming slaves to the central bank. If you needed to borrow money, it came from one bank. If you needed a savings account, the rates come from one bank. 

These people weren't slaves like you are taught about in school. This form of slavery is much sneakier. You see, the banks don't care about your religion or skin color. They don't care what you do for a living, they don't care who you marry or where you make your home. So long as you forfeit to them a portion of your wages.

They accomplished their evil goal through their government partnership. Through government, the bank is able to move from one part of the market to the next. It pumps up the market with huge lines of credit, people borrow money they cannot afford to repay, soon that entire section of the economy is relying on the flow of money to continue operating their businesses.

And then the bank stops the money flow. The bubble pops. Businesses stop working. People lose their jobs. No one repay the bank.

The federal government derives most of its power from the military and from the banking system. Without the ability to print money on a whim the US government would have to raise taxes (Printing money is effectively taxation but it is sneakier). 

When the government paid the banks it was securing it's ability to do whatever it wants with the money. 

Tax payers - >  Pay taxes to government

Tax payers - >  Owe money to banks

Tax Payers cannot pay.

Government gives tax payer money to the banks.

Banks say "Hah, even though this is the tax payers money we aren't forgiving tax payer debts"

Government says "As long as we can keep printing!"

**TLDR: Federal Reserve**
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The problem with the financial crisis is that banks bundled and sold mortgages, in the hundreds or thousands. They were rated, via moody's or standard and poore's rating agencies. 

When other financial agencies or banks buy these products they don't go through each loan and scrutenize it. They rely on the ratings, that work should have already been done and the ratings should be a decent indication of the quality of the bundles, and something that should be reasonably reliable. After all, that is the point of the ratings. 

With a slowing economy, that followed a housing boom and low lending rates and shoddy lending practices (lending to people who had no business buying a house, or lending more than they could afford, sometimes  > 100% of the homes value!) banks were suddenly left holding mortgages that were underwater and falling even more underwater as housing values declined. 

They were toxic, they were illiquid, they were left with no other choice but to just write the investments down, or essentially completely off, crippling the financial industry and would have caused massive failures throughout the country and world.

With respect to individual homeowners, they took out the loans, and with instances where the full value or close to it was borrowed they can and often did end up underwater. However, this is not toxic, it essentially locks the homeowner to the home long term. They would and have often reversed that over time with continued payments. 

The government picked the worse of two birds to bail out. I didn't support TARP, but neither would I support bailing out people who borrowed more than they could afford with ARM's and Balloon payment mortgages. They had every opportunity to understand what they are doing. Plus, how do you go about deciding who gets money and how much?

If I bought a 200k house with 100k down and 2 years later I now owe 95k and my house is worth 150k. I am not underwater, but my house is worth far less and I am going to take a large hit if I chose to sell the house.

My neighber though, they bought that same house at the same time for 200k. They borrowed the full 200k plus the 10k in closing costs. Now their home is worth 150k, and the owe 205k. They;re underwater. If they sell they're still going to be in the hole and would likely have to work out a short sale with the bank if they wanted out ASAP.

Why does situation B deserve any money versus person A? We pay for irresponsibility now? Insane.

*Before you jump down my throat about how I am pro-corporate blah blah and I hate people blah, please remember this line: ***I didn't support TARP**
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I had a thought about this back in 2008 when the TARP was originally announced and I havent been able to think of a reason why it wouldnt have worked.


Point 1: Banking liquidity was a paramount short-term consideration for maintaining the day-to-day functioning of the economy.


Point 2: The longer term consideration was to preserve consumer demand in the economy to prevent a spiraling contraction in the job market and the entire economy as a result.


Suggested solution: Give the TARP money to the banks under the condition that they immediately apply the money directly to the outstanding mortgages (say by reducing them all by some fixed percentage) and refinance all of them at 4% fixed rate. 
(i.e. instead of corporate socialism, we spread the socialism around)


1st Order Results

The banks would have had the money they needed.

The distressed CDOs on their books could have been revalued so their liabilities would have decreased and they would have been in less danger of failing.

Taxpayers would have had more money in their pockets due to lower mortgage payments and been less likely to default on their mortgages.

The government would not have had to take the risk of not having the loans paid back.


2nd or higher order results

People would have been less fearful of the future of the economy and less likely to reduce their spending, thereby maintaining the demand for production.

Fewer layoffs

Fewer people homeless and/or on government assistance.

Tax revenues would have been higher with more people working.

The uncertainty that resulted in the stock market dropping would have been reduced If not mitigated.

GDP would not have taken as big a hit since people would have had more confidence in the economy and maintained a higher level of demand and companies would not have subsequently needed to lay off as many people.

There may have been less of a need for banks to be given no interest loans from the Fed (effectively giving them riskless profits) and possibly mitigated the need for Quantitative Easing. The effects of which lined the pockets of the wealthy.


Potential Issues

The only issue I could see would be the oversight of the actual distribution of funds. After seeing how the banks effectively scuttled most of President Obamas attempts to help out homeowners, it seem s like they would have had to settle on a set percentage decrease of the mortgages in advance so the banks could not mess around with the process after the fact.



Even people who were not homeowners would have been better off by not having the economy contract as much as it did.



(edit: spacing)
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: A guy I know who has spent a career in finance, including working as a VP for several large banks, stated that your suggestion is exactly what the gov't should have done.

Rather than giving money to the banks, who seemed to more or less sit on it, he suggested that the gov't should have setup a program to help those who were short on their house payments.

For example:  Homeowner complains "I cant make my house payment because my wife's job went away."  Gov't says "How much is your payment?  How much can you pay?"  Homeowner replies "Its $2200.  I can pay $1100."  Gov't replies "Ok, we'll spot you the other $1100 each month, BUT when you sell the house you owe us that money back, plus maybe a little interest."  Homeowner replied "Awesome!  Thanks Uncle Sam!"  Gov't smiles and says "Hey, I got your back.  Remember, we are all in this together!"

He also suggested a plan where the gov't plunk down a lump sum of $200k to readjust the payments on a mortgage of $400k.

Aaannnnddd...  None of this happened.  Instead I know good people who were screwed because of things beyond their control, slightly bad decisions they made, etc.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Everyone has pointed out that there were indeed a lot of programs that helped out home owners with their mortgages. One important fact is that banks essentially *make* money without any being physically there. Here's what I mean:

Say, for example, that there's you, your friend bob, and Mr.Bank. You, being content with what you have, put your money into Mr.Bank for it to gather interest rather than just sit under your mattress doing nothing. Mr.Bank then takes the money you have deposited and loans it to people like Bob, who want to buy houses, pay for school, or a shiny new car. Now, technically, there is essentially twice the amount of money in the system than before, where it would have just sat under your mattress. The "money" you have with Mr.Bank, and the money used in investing in the previous things I mentioned.

Investment, in Macroeconomic models, is an incredibly important factor in determining the amount of production we get in our economy. Without banks, there *is* no investment, because there is no credit availability and nobody giving out loans to smaller businesses, people who want to go to school, etc.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Here's why:
The TOTAL allotment for TARP, as of June 30 2012, was $467 billion.  In 2008, there were about 240 million adults in the US.

If TARP had been directed towards individuals instead of corporations, that would have been about 1950 bucks per person.

Now, people would undoubtedly have spent this money, which would have helped the economy, but there would have been no way to collect it BACK, which was part of the idea of TARP - it would be a temporary loan to banks and other companies, at little to no interest, and it would eventually be asked to be repaid (current TARP losses are about 60 billion dollars; not really a huge amount of money).

Plus, companies could theoretically leverage their continued existence into hiring and benefiting the economy.  The fact that this hasn't happened is an issue worth raising, but the *theory* is at least nice, if not sound.

tl;dr: TARP was directed towards corporations and banks because the government hoped it would be repaid, and because the outlay being focused on corporations would, theoretically, result in job growth.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I was not underwater. I worked hard, saved and paid 50% down on my mortgage. ($100,000). Then I was badly injured and couldn't work for 4 years. I have been unable to get hired at a full time job ever since (I am currently 18 months behind on Payments). A judge ordered the insurance settlement from the accident be split between three victims instead of each victim getting a separate settlement. The settlement share wasn't enough to stop foreclosure on my home. I applied for mortgage help through two different government plans. I didn't qualify for either one. The mortgage bailouts were only for the so called "sub prime" victims and victims of what was termed mortgage fraud where payments were allegedly mismanaged or misdirected by certain banks. There was no help for those of us who did everything right and got behind through no fault of our own. I sued to gain time but it is only a delaying tactic. I will be homeless in 3 months. I will lose everything I worked so hard for and still no job.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I wrote the White House and I suggested giving money directly to home owners with the stipulation that it first gets applied to mortgage then charge cards, student loans, etc. In that manner the money would be distributed throughout the banking system instead of cronyism which is what happened. More money was wasted on GM and Solindra when it could have help many people in need. The White House response was a form letter inviting me to join the Democrat Party. I tore it up and have been hating this administration ever since. What a bunch of clowns. By the way... The govt refinance program was a slap in the face to those people not under water as unless you had a need, meaning your house was worth less than you paid for it, you were denied. Many people that have been able to pay but have high mortgage rates were unable to refinance unless they took on substantial debt. If you're middle class and pay your bills, keep down your debt, don't expect a favor from this group in DC.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: You're right that that would've been a better, less morally corrupt way of doing things, and would've been easier to live with knowing that the banks, who created the mess and fucked everyone (especially the homeowners) over, didn't just get off scott-free, but that's exactly what ended up happening.  And it really is because the US system is stacked in their favour, money rules all and that's the truth.  The truth also is it was a panic situation when it went down, and bailing out the banks was pretty much the only quick and dirty solution.  The banks held all the power there, all of it, even if they were the ones who were hat-in-hand looking for bailouts.  Failing to give the bailouts would've resulted in collapse, which would've led to the post-08 recession being much worse than it was.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The bailout was done to stop a bank run on the major banks.  

The story is, the banks were deregulated in the 90s from having to keep provisions for the loans being made, this allowed for cheaper loans without increasing the inflation  rate.  This built up into an asset bubble which fed back into the valuation of the banks, this caused exuberant optimism in house prices, leading to lowering of lending standards.

When the bubble burst, the balance sheets readjusted, we realised the banks no longer held enough money to stop a bank run.  Failstop solution was to bail the banks to stop creditors calling on the bank and collapsing the system.

Even if the mortgages were purchased by the government, the bank run would have still collapsed the system.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Like they did in Iceland and they did very well. Also arrested the bankers. So in my opinion the bankers had many good friends in politics!
And isn't it funny that the money transferred offshore is pretty much the same amount the taxpayer paid to save the banks? And why did the managers, who allowed this shit got boni, but the homeowners the boot? 
And after being bailed out the banks start crying "get out of my business government" what's wrong with this picture?
Honestly America was founded as protest against the (British) government, but now? No sound against government control and suppression (patriot act) not a peep against the banks robbing everybody and getting tax funding to do so. The forefathers would turn in their graves, if they know!
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because of everyone stopped paying interest on their loans,  the majority wouldn't take out a second loan and banks would lose money and collapse.  It makes more sense to give the banks more money to loan out and drive Americans further into debt according to big business.  I don't agree with it because essentially,  the pan is to screw me, but I don't have funds to pay a lobbyist boat loads of cash to argue my point like banks do.  Probably not the only reason,  but it's my opinion and it sounds good in my head. Smdg...
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: A major role of banks is lending money to businesses so they can expand and create more jobs. If the the major banks collapsed, they would stop lending, meaning business would stop functioning. This would only exacerbate the problems with the economy, so the banks had to take priority to stop a major collapse. Also, banks have more capacity to pay back the loans, as banks generally make a lot of money when they do well, allowing the government to be paid back sooner.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Easy. Because if they gave the money to the home-owners, the home-owners would get to keep their homes.

This way, the banks gets bailed out for the bad loan (ie, no losses).. AND.. they also get your home, which they can sell... and then someday give you another loan, so you can have a place to live.

Under your scenario, everyone wins. Under the real scenario that happened, the bank wins twice.. and you lose..so, obviously, they're going to go with the latter
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Maybe because the homeowners that defaulted on payments are already proven to no pay back what is owed and bank owners are the ones who are owed the money anyways. And even though they're just as likely (in my opinion) to not pay it back, and can just make money via a central bank. They can actually use the money more 'responsibly'.

_URL_7_
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: This thread is just hundreds of people give hundreds of alternative, conflicting answers to OP's question.

Cant we just admit that most of us, if not **all of us**, do not know what the hell we are talking about beyond what we're repeating from media and people claiming to be experts? 

Economics may as well be magic.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: A bailout to homeowners would be a check to all the people with bad mortgages. What happens when you give the average American (especially one who decided they could afford a half million dollar home on 80 grand a year) some money? Do they pay their bills, or do they go out and buy a new tv?
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The government bailed out homeowners by lending the banks money, who then let homeowners refinance their mortgages (lower rates at new lower market prices) instead of default/foreclose so the banks still make money (not as much as before) and are able to pay back the government for the loans.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: I just got a couple hundred back from that settlement for wrongful eviction and foreclosure from a couple years back.  Didn't do anything, they just sent the check.  A couple hundred doesn't really get me my house back but it's more than I expected.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Nobody seems to be touching on this: fractional reserve banking.  Our modern day banks are essentially money printers.  By giving money to the banks they can then create 10x that amount in new loans for the economy.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The poster is not asking about new home sales. They are asking why the government bailed out banks INSTEAD of giving the money to home buyers that were underwater to help offset the cost of their mortgage.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: because bank(s) would have collapsed and would have caused a panic with systemic failure. Mohammad El-Erian told his wife to get as much cash out of the ATM as possible
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The people deciding where the money goes are friends with bankers not homeowners.  They're also willing to bet there's nothing we can do about it.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because even one failing bank causes everyone to freak out (e.g. great depression), while one or even many homes being foreclosed doesn't.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Between one and five of these gentlemen could have fixed the problem single-handedly without experiencing any significant loss:

_URL_8_
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: If homeowners fail, the economy is hurt

If the banks fail, the economy is GONE.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Like it or not, the economy would have flat-out failed if the banks died.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because the home owners didn't bank roll the congressmens/women's campaign funds.  <  --- period.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: because the banks owned the homes that were being foreclosed on.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Home owners would have spent it on cars, drugs  &  women.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: How much money do homeowners have to pay lobbyists/bribe politicians?
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Because home owners didn't make significant campaign contributions to politicians.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: The "home owners" were a large part of the problem.
question: Why didn't the federal government give bailout money to home owners instead of the banks?Why didn't the federal government give bailout money directly to homeowners in pre foreclosure, with stipulation that money must be used towards their mortgage?  Wouldn't this have ultimately achieved the same result (bank getting the bailout money) without so many people being foreclosed on?  answer: Why didn't the government give bailouts to renters?
question: What stops United Kingdom from having a second vote for BREXIT since the first one had a super small margin?[removed] answer: Nothing.  The referendum wasn't binding on Parliament, so they're allowed to do whatever they want, including ignore it, follow it, or hold another referendum asking again.

However, the majority of Parliament feels they have a responsibility to follow what the public voted for, even if the public might vote differently today.  The point of a referendum in a democracy is to ask the public what they prefer in order to choose what the government will do, and so when the public gives you an answer, there's an implied obligation to do that thing.
question: What stops United Kingdom from having a second vote for BREXIT since the first one had a super small margin?[removed] answer: At the moment, the prime minister. May has been holding the line that there will be no further referendums in press releases and in discussions with the EU. [source](_URL_0_)  
Whether or not it's a good idea for the Britain, there are many politicians who have hitched their wagons to the exit movement. It's not unreasonable to think it would be career suicide to reverse course now.
question: What stops United Kingdom from having a second vote for BREXIT since the first one had a super small margin?[removed] answer: Nothing stops them, but why would you vote again? 

There has already been a vote, the people decided. You don't get to just keep having referendums until you get the "right" result.
question: What stops United Kingdom from having a second vote for BREXIT since the first one had a super small margin?[removed] answer: When would it stop? If one party keeps want to vote untill they get the results they want, it would go on forever.
question: What stops United Kingdom from having a second vote for BREXIT since the first one had a super small margin?[removed] answer: It would be career suicide for the acting conservative government.  The tabloids namely the mail and the sun would ensure that those politicians would never be able to work again. Not to mention that there is a good reason to see that the result may differ, however it's no garuntee. And again the right wing tabloids hold tremendous power here, what's to stop them from running an even harsher hate campaign against immigrants, (if such a thing exists) and is that fuel for the already burning fire of hate in the UK really worth the chance that we might collectively change our minds? 

Footnote; I voted remain and would much rather change this decision than deal with the consequences,  the opportunities that I have lost in my lifetime and that of future generations are vast in number. I'll never forget how sick I felt when I saw the result. But this really is the definition of being stuck between a rock and a hard place. We face serious risk of becoming a dangerously secular country if we give this kind of hate yet another vehicle with which to fester. This is a debate I've had with friends time and time again, and as far as we can see there is no answer, there is no right way of doing things from here. It just sucks.
question: What stops United Kingdom from having a second vote for BREXIT since the first one had a super small margin?[removed] answer: Because you don't vote on issues until you get a desired result. 




You vote once, the people decide, you live with it.
question: Why are people so proud of their nationality?Ideally, people are proud of things that they have worked hard to achieve.  Why do so many people take such pride in something that they had nothing to do with?  If a mother lives and gives birth in one location, her offspring should be intensely proud of that, but if she gives birth a hundred yards away on the other side of an imaginary line, then they should be intensely proud of that instead? answer: When you're raised in a household with a strong emphasis on your culture, you identify yourself with it. Its as simple as that
question: Why are people so proud of their nationality?Ideally, people are proud of things that they have worked hard to achieve.  Why do so many people take such pride in something that they had nothing to do with?  If a mother lives and gives birth in one location, her offspring should be intensely proud of that, but if she gives birth a hundred yards away on the other side of an imaginary line, then they should be intensely proud of that instead? answer: Birth citizenship is a relatively new concept, and really only practiced by Western countries.

But your nation can be described as your big extended family. Are you not proud of your sister/brother? If some person of your country did something amazing, then that shows what people of your nation are capable of doing. And maybe even you have the same potential.
question: Why are people so proud of their nationality?Ideally, people are proud of things that they have worked hard to achieve.  Why do so many people take such pride in something that they had nothing to do with?  If a mother lives and gives birth in one location, her offspring should be intensely proud of that, but if she gives birth a hundred yards away on the other side of an imaginary line, then they should be intensely proud of that instead? answer: I'm currently reading Flashpoints by George Friedman, a political scientist who focuses on geopolitics that addresses that very question. He basically argues that it was relatively easy for a king to make people fight his wars. They may not have fought their hardest, but when he gave an order people didn't have much of a choice, as the king's power was (in theory) unconditional.

Once we transitioned to democratic nation-states, it became very difficult to make people fight, as even with a draft, they could simply vote for the person that would end the war. The idea of nationalism was heavily promoted around this time to give people the desire and will to fight for their nation. 

Disclaimer: Friedman can be a controversial subject, and he's not necessarily the majority opinion on political science. Whether or not he's right is certainly up for debate.
question: Why are people so proud of their nationality?Ideally, people are proud of things that they have worked hard to achieve.  Why do so many people take such pride in something that they had nothing to do with?  If a mother lives and gives birth in one location, her offspring should be intensely proud of that, but if she gives birth a hundred yards away on the other side of an imaginary line, then they should be intensely proud of that instead? answer: I see a lot of opinion here and a lot of sway one way or the other. Instead ill answer from what little I've picked up on the reason for patriotism / nationalism / jingoism and that mentality you are asking about:

I'll try to ELI5 it: way back when a guy was living in a cave and there were dangerous things outside, things that wanted to come into the cave and kill him and his family. He found that there was a guy in a cave not too far away in a similar predicament and by banding together they could defend their family, and not only that they could go out and get more food. They then found another few guys and families and found that by getting together, dividing their efforts on tasks and working with eachother they could even improve their comfort levels and basic standards of living.

Obviously time goes by and the clan gets bigger and stronger and more prosperous and they come across another clan just like them. Only this clan thinks differently... and they want the first clans women, their food they worked so hard for, and the nice cave and settlement structure they had built. Now the first clan have all grown up around eachother and have a similar way of thinking so they don't want to be servants to clan 2. They fight back and are victorious and so can go on living as they do. Through this and through child after child being brought up in a similar environment with similar teachings the first clan are all like minded and they all know deep down that by sticking together and always protecting one another they will survive and prosper. 

Rinse and repeat this until the clan is hundreds of thousands of people, if not millions. 

It's old clan mentality of survival and the preservation of the way of life. 

However silly it may seem to care about a guy who lives down the street from you more than the guy who lives on the other side of an ocean it is based in a (hopefully) "mutual" understanding that you will maintain and improve the way of life as you see it along with like minded people within your culture and place of living. 

It's a ridiculous continued mindset now because people from all over the world travel to live together so the nationalist / patriotic / or jingoistic mentality is false as it no longer leads to improvements, it leads to closed mindedness, exclusionary conservative ways of thinking (meant in the dictionary definition) which give you racism, prejudice and empires that go stomping into other countries, giving them weapons to kill eachother, and then killing them for the gains of the empire. 

This last bit isn't aimed at America by the way, countries have been doing this since the beginning of leadership. You give the clan who come asking in the right way a trade agreement for arms and training, they go off killing people who they don't like and then start getting a little "big for their boots" in the eyes of the first empire who now see them as a possible threat, so they go in and kill everyone and try to convert what's left to their way of thinking. Only this other clan has their own mindset and bringing in behavioural changes is almost impossible, so you leave and rinse and repeat this situation. 

EDIT: FYI the pride aspect is a subcondition of all of this; it's built upon the thought process that by backing up, agreeing with, and feeling good about what members and representatives of your clan are doing then you are effectively furthering the efforts and mindset of your clan.
question: Why are people so proud of their nationality?Ideally, people are proud of things that they have worked hard to achieve.  Why do so many people take such pride in something that they had nothing to do with?  If a mother lives and gives birth in one location, her offspring should be intensely proud of that, but if she gives birth a hundred yards away on the other side of an imaginary line, then they should be intensely proud of that instead? answer: For the same reason why people are so proud of any regional thing, be it the local sports team, rebellions and battlegrounds that took place where you live, or even famous people who lived/ were born in a nearby area. 

You see, humans are social animals, meaning that they desperately need a sense of community. The only problem is that the modern human society is billions strong and according to [Dunbars number](_URL_0_), any one human can only keep a strong social connection with a maximum of somewhere between 100 and 250 people. This in turn leads to a very strong "Us versus THEM" mentality, and people naturally tend to choose a banner that most of the people in their group fall under, like "roots for this sports team" or "is a member of this country".

I should point out that while I say "Us versus Them", I do not intend to insinuate that the two groups are ALWAYS in conflict; it is perfectly possible to have one of these conflicts but to only feel "meh" about the opponents. It just tends to mean that while you consider them "them", you have the foresight to realize that you do so on the basis that you don't "know" them the way you "know" your "us".
question: Why are people so proud of their nationality?Ideally, people are proud of things that they have worked hard to achieve.  Why do so many people take such pride in something that they had nothing to do with?  If a mother lives and gives birth in one location, her offspring should be intensely proud of that, but if she gives birth a hundred yards away on the other side of an imaginary line, then they should be intensely proud of that instead? answer: Edit: Alright, sorry for coming across as patronizing. The gist of it is that it's a response to a sense of belonging most humans have. Setting your group on a pedestal above others makes you feel special and helps individuals develop a sense of identity apart from humanity as a whole (that is, nationalism can reinforce individualism).

Original post preserved below.

Well Billy (you're 5, you're Billy), think of it this way: yknow how during recess you get together for kickball or teeball and the teacher picks two captains, who then pick teams? Well, those captains are each the basis of a country, and the team are the people in it.

When we do well at bat (or...kick...? What do you call the "batter" in kickball, anyway?), there is a sense that we all contributed to something bigger than ourselves and our friends will like us more. This makes your team even more separate from the other team, and you want to get along with your team more than you do with the other. So, over time, because you care about doing well and your team doing well, you have spent most of your time paying attention to it and tend to overlook the problems it has. 

On the other hand, the other team is competition, and it's easy to pick out their faults because you want to find them to make sure your team can win. So over time you come to think of your team as better (ignoring its faults) and the other team as inferior (full of faults and nothing else).
question: Why are people so proud of their nationality?Ideally, people are proud of things that they have worked hard to achieve.  Why do so many people take such pride in something that they had nothing to do with?  If a mother lives and gives birth in one location, her offspring should be intensely proud of that, but if she gives birth a hundred yards away on the other side of an imaginary line, then they should be intensely proud of that instead? answer: There is a certain type of comradeship you feel with the citizens of your fellow nation.
It is incredibly hateful to call people out on their pride as some peopled do in these posts.

Take for instance you going to a foreign country you know very little about. It so happens you meet a person from the same nationality (American?) Wouldn't you be closer to him/her than other people? You share a common culture and a common history.

People who take pride in their nationality are proud that their people have done something for the world. They enjoy their culture and tradition. Western countries have hands down the best treatment of women in the world; should we not be proud of that fact? This sort of logic extends to *other* parts of a nation's culture or heritage.
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: If you're driving at what I think you're driving at, the worst that happens is that you'll have a bump from the fluid being trapped under your skin that'll be tender and will be absorbed by your body within a couple of days.
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: When dealing with livestock, we rarely inject into veins. Animals being too wiggly for that sort of thing.

So there are two other standard classes of injection, intramuscular (IM) and subcutaneous (SQ). Far more drugs are delivered these ways than IV.

Drugs designed for IM use have a rapid effect as they end up transferred into the blood quickly. IM injections are painful in larger volumes. Most human injections designed for consumers are IM (insulin, epinephrine, vaccines etc) edit: OK, not insulin!  as they are hard to mess up. Most of these in fact should NOT be injected into a vein as side effects will result. This means if you are injecting into your own veins... you're probably not supposed to be doing that.

SQ injections go right under the skin, form a lump and seep slowly into the body. If the volume is high, this method must be used I.e. standard emergency treatment for milk fever in sheep is 100cc Cal/Mag SQ. This must be spread over 5 locations as it is a lot of fluid! 

You can also inject interperitoneal, which is into the body cavity. Rapid effect, huge risk of infection, emergency lifesaving procedures only. Don't even think of injecting anything this way.

Edit: for those who want the direct answer to the question: either the effect will be weaker/slower as described above, or it may cause local tissue damage. Thanks to all the human docs who came in to clarify animal/human differences!
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: MD here. Lots of medications are meant to be injected either under the skin into the fatty tissue (subcutaneous/SC) or into muscle tissue (intramuscular/IM). For example, insulin and some blood thinners are injected SC, while most vaccines are given IM. A lot of medications can be given either intravenously (IV) or IM or SC. The main difference with the SC/IM routes is that the drug will be absorbed into the bloodstream more slowly, which may be preferable in certain situations. 

However, other medications can be disastrous if they leak out of a vein ("extravasate"). These are often highly concentrated, hyperosmolar solutions such as hypertonic saline, calcium chloride, or the IV contrast used for CT scans. The result is often necrosis (death) of the affected tissue, pain, swelling, and compartment syndrome, which can cut off blood supply to the affected extremity and lead to amputations.

When it comes to recreational drugs like heroin, the intensity of the "high" is relative to how fast the drug gets into the brain. Injecting into a vein, therefore, is going to deliver the drug to the brain in a high concentration within seconds, with the resulting "rush" that IV heroin users are chasing. If you miss the vein, the heroin is probably going IM or SC, so it will get into the bloodstream, and the brain, more slowly, with a less intense high. A lot of long-time heroin users have scarred up their veins so much that they have to resort to "skin popping", which is basically SC or sometimes a more superficial "intradermal" injection. This often leads to awful skin and soft tissue infections and abscesses. All those nasty pictures you've seen floating around Reddit of "krokodil" users and their horrid necrotizing skin infections are the result of chronic skin popping and IM drug injection.
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: Depends on the drug. Some drugs, like epinephrine, are actually better absorbed through muscle tissue, which is why epi-pens are used on the thigh. Drugs which are injected into a vein, however, will likely cause tissue necrosis (death) or even worse things if improperly used.
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: I had to self inject fertility meds, both IM in the butt  &  SubQ in the gut. Redness, a little sore but that's pretty much what's to be expected.
I once had an IV in my hand and apparently the nurse missed the vein. It wasn't painful, but my hand looked and felt swollen. Was very unpleasant. 

So really, it all depends on what your injecting. Either you'll be fine or you'll die ;)
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: Nationally board certified infusion RN here. Generally, it is dependent on what is injected. Isotonic? Alkaline? Acidic? Caustic?  Sterile? 

Let's say it's just something that's not harmful to the body like sterile 0.9% saline. It will just absorb into the body over time.  Time absorbed is dependent on amount infused and which part of the body infused. Many different antibiotics and other medicines are given subcutaneously or intramuscularly. 

Then there is the other side of the spectrum.  Let's say you have a caustic antibiotic or substance that is harmful to the cells in your body. It will cause cellular death and necrosis, which could then cause an inflammatory response from the body and a whole new set of problems. 

Then what if you inject something that isn't sterile?  Like heroin in a dirty needle?  This is quite common with drug users that either miss the veins or "skin pop."  This can cause abscesses, or collections of bacteria and purulent fluid. If not treated, these can become a systemic infection leading to sepsis and bacteremia. 

On mobile.  Did my best while working!
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: It would be extremely painful. For you.

Jokes aside, in pharmacology, we have three areas of administration for drugs, via the vein, into a muscle or under the skin. If you inject into other areas say, bone, it would be really painful since the area surrounding bone is the periosteum, a membrane filled with capillaries and nerves. If you inject to a body cavity, it will probably stay there until the body absorbs it over time. This is the principle behind treating Hydrocephalus( water in the brain), where they put a tube from the brain into a cavity called the peritoneum which acts like a bag that encases your guts.
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: As somebody else has explained there are different types of injections: intramuscular, intravenous, and subcutanous.

Intramuscular uses a long tipped needle and injects deep into muscle. This is typically done on your upper arm muscles (kind of where your triceps are) or the top of your leg (above the knee). This is how those epinephrine emergency pens work for people going into severe allergic shock. Large needle shoved into the top of the leg.

Subcutanous is injected just beneath the skin or into fatty tissue. Insulin is subcutanous, you typically inject it into the fat on your waist/thigh area.

I imagine most prescribed medicines given by injection are not IV because of the difficulty of finding a vein and the...tendency of veins to collapse/scar/etc.

As a recovering IV heroine addict I can give some further insight though. There are veins in your palm so it is possible to IV there with practice (and I have), but if you were to miss the shot would just sit in a bubble under your skin for some hours before being absorbed. (been there too) 

Same for pretty much anywhere else you SQ. Look at this trend in japan called "Bagel Head". They inject saline into their forehead and it just sits there in a bubble for a few hours before dissipating and having to be redone.

_URL_0_
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: Something I can post about! 
Story time! 
I had kidney stones on New Years Eve 2011. I didn't know what was wrong at first, but it was THE WORST pain I have ever felt so I went to the Emergency Room.  I was in such extreme pain that they were going to put a needle in my arm to give me some pain medicine through an IV.  So the nurse guy comes in and puts the needle in.  I don't look because I can't stand the sight of needles.  So he does it and leaves. 
About 5 or so minutes goes by and I still have not looked at my arm with the needle in it but it starts to feel really weird and kinda painful.  
It's been almost 10 minutes and I am still in EXCRUCIATING PAIN. 
Finally, another nurse comes in and she looked at me with a terrified face and ran out. 
I finally looked down at my arm and it was freaking like 5 times the normal size.  My whole arm and hand had swelled up to the size of a large man's arm. 
Turns out that instead of putting the IV in my vein, the stuck it in my artery.
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: Like everybody else said, theres a couple routes you can give a drug, and depending on the drug, it'll have different effects. For example, If you were to, say start an IV (intravenous), but you miss, and it goes interstitial (outside of the vein), and you inject dextrose (basically sugar, used for low blood glucose), it'll have a necrotic effect. it'll basically kill the tissue and blacken it.
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: Some drugs, like Humira are designed to be subcutaneously injected - fine needle into the leg - fluid is absorbed over a day or so.  So, it all depends on the substance injected.  If you want to look at some (NSFL) tissue necrosis, google "Injection Injury" to see what the wrong substance can do under your skin.
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: That is called an intramuscular injection, into a muscle but not a vein. Whatever drug will not hit the system as quickly as an intravenous (vein shot), so the effect will not be as strong and it will take longer to "come up" or hit.
source- worked in a nursing-related field
question: What happens if I inject a needle(medicine, drugs, etc) into myself and it isn't into a vein? For example into my palm, or in a random place on my arm.[removed] answer: If I'm not mistaken, aren't steroids injected into the thigh or buttocks?
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: *Finally, my degree is useful for something!*

So educators are usually really *bad* at explaining why you read the things you read for school.  The core concept to grasp here is the *literary canon*: that is, the body of works that are the foundation of [Western] literature.  They are the most historically and culturally significant pieces of literature being studied currently.  But how do works get added to the canon?

The surface layer is that they get into the canon because old stuffy [usually white, usually male] scholars *want* to study them, so they do, so it's expected that their students study them, so they do, so it's expected that to prepare for college you have to study them, so you do.  It's not like a few Ivy League professors sat down in a dark, smokey room and discussed the future of the literary canon...but also it kind of is like that?  Keep in mind, there are multiple "sub-canons".  There is the American literature canon (featuring Anne Bradstreet, Thoreau, Emerson, Faulkner, Hemingway, Whitman, etc.); the British literature canon (Shakespeare, Geoffrey Chaucer, John Donne, Jane Austen, etc.), the poetry canon (Frost, Emerson, Whitman, Donne, Herbert, Shakespeare, etc.), the historical foundational canon (Homer, Virgil, *Beowulf*, *Gilgamesh*, etc.), the science fiction canon (Mary Shelley, Frank Herbert, Robert Heinlein, etc.).  I know I'm throwing a lot of names at you; the point is that there is *the canon* and then there is "I'm studying English poetry in the late 1800s, *these* are the people I should be reading".

Which then **raises** the question, why do those scholars want to study those works?  We have the benefit of hindsight, so *today* we might read Hemingway and [rightly] think he's boring and dry.  But at the time his writing style was revolutionary.  Before Hemingway, prose was all very *eloquent* and had propensity for verbosity.  Hemingway wrote in a short, clean, *different* style.  You may not like it, but he made it ok to *not* write in the old, stuffy way that everyone had been writing before him.  That's not to say Hemingway was the first, or the best, but he was *good* and he was famous and he showed everyone that you could write in a different fashion.  Suddenly everyone was writing in this new minimalist style, which in turn led to other changes in literature that allowed for the kinds of books we read today for fun.  Without Hemingway, our literature today would look *very* different.  Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson did the same thing for poetry.  Those are some very specific examples, but I hope they can demonstrate how authors can influence literature, and sometimes they're a part of the canon for those reasons.

The very old part of the canon is in there for much the same reason, but more in the sense of *inventing literature at all*.  Homer's Odyssey is the foundational work for *so much* of western literature.  Literally everything you've ever read, **ever**, was influenced by the Odyssey.  And Epic of Gilgamesh is the oldest great work of literature - the oldest version of That Movie That Everyone Saw.  It's the first ever example of real literature, which is kind of a big deal.  Studying them can help you understand how storytelling evolved, by showing you how it started.  I won't go into too much detail here about what, exactly, you would learn (narrative structure, framing devices...) because I don't need to give you an English lesson, eh?  Suffice it to say, there's a lot there to unpack.

Some works are a part of the canon because they're just easy to digest.  F. Scott Fitzgerald is fairly easy to analyze and understand on a more abstract level, mostly because all of his symbolism is the same (that is, everything represents the "unobtainable American Dream").  It wouldn't do any good to say, "Here kids, learn how to analyze literature by *analyzing the most difficult literature possible*".  Of course, unfortunately that's often *exactly* what English classes do.  It's akin to saying, "Here kids, let's learn how to do math.  Shall we start with calculus?  No?  Trigonometry then..."  Which is unfortunate, because literature is awesome and there's some really cool stuff to learn...once you learn the tools you need to do it.  But I digress.

But most of the canon boils down to be cultural icons of the time when they were published, or sometimes later when people rediscovered them.  They can be both a window into the culture surrounding the person that wrote the works, why they wrote what they did, what symbolism they were using at the time, how they thought and viewed the world; and also a window into how that one piece of literature or author or movement changed the culture they were in, which trickled down to influence our own culture.  They can also be ways to understand ourselves by analyzing our own reactions to what we're reading, and the literature in the canon often elicits strong reactions in its readers.

None of that is to say that the canon is perfect; far from it!  I studied English and I hate huge chunks of the canon ([don't even get me started on *Catcher in the Rye*](_URL_0_)).  But that's the idea of it: important literature that had a powerful influence on people and the times they were from, which encourages others to study that literature, which is itself a strong reaction that encourages others to study why the first people studied it, etc., so that it continues to have influence and continues to be important literature worth studying.  TL;DR: The literary canon is literature that is "worth studying".

EDIT: Important thing I totally missed.  The literary canon is also supposed to be an introduction to your own national identity.  When you so much as watch cartoons you'll be getting [references to cultural icons](_URL_1_).  Seriously, as an adult go back and watch Animaniacs (it's on Netflix!) and see how many references you *didn't* get when you were a kid.  When you read the American literary canon it's in part teaching you what it means to be an American.  It helps build a unifying web of understanding, because when you make a joke about how painting a fence is "fun" and someone else laughs, you think *This guy also read Tom Sawyer* and you feel a connection with that person.  Enough of those cultural connections help form the glue that is our national identity.  It kind of sounds like indoctrination...and it kind of is.  And that's not *bad* because it's teaching you about your country and how to be a citizen of that country, which is perfectly fine as long as it doesn't get out of control.

EDIT: Hemingway has one m.  I derped *so hard*.  Thanks for the guys that caught it.  EDIT: and Emerson, dammnit.  I am a derp, sorry for the typos.  Eventually I'll run out of names to misspell.

EDIT: for the pedants: ~~begs~~ raises

EDIT: Obligatory Thanks for the Gold, but [I think they misspelled Emmerson](_URL_3_). ^^/s

Because people have been asking: [This is my scifi reviews/essay blog](_URL_2_).  The responses have really been really encouraging, so I'm going to try to revitalize it and get to posting there again.  If you're into aquariums, [I also have a blog about aquariums](_URL_4_).  I do most of my writing on Reddit, though - right here in ELI5!

I have been convinced to reread *Catcher in the Rye* to see if age will give me a better perspective.  I stand by my dislike of Hemingway, but if you enjoy him don't let me stop you.

**TL;DR - Like the rest of this comment, the books you are assigned to read in class are probably worth reading for reasons that will be made clear if you read the rest of that book/this comment.**
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Haha! Finally MY degree is useful here. I am a special education teacher and teach middle school high functioning autism. I also happen to teach for a cooperative, mrsningy (edit: most of my) students come from all around the area, covering multiple school districts each with their own set of expectations for student growth. I'm basically told each year "figure something out".

Now this would be golden for most teachers who hate teaching from a required script but since I deal with students who hate school by the time they get to me, it can get tough. I'm also a veteran teacher so my admins just figure I know what I'm doing (sometimes I do sometimes I don't). I'm given a budget each year and expected to field an entire curriculum from that.

About 4 year ago I decided that having them read science fiction and fantasy books is over. They prefer that type of story because it's more fun to read, but I hate Harry Potter and the hunger games by now, so I decided to find books that would challenge them. We now read classics iny classroom like "Of Mice and Men" and 'Huck Finn", books that have far deeper meaning than anything they would ever read on their own, and books that even most middle school teachers avoid. 

So for my experience, we read those books because I want them to. 

Edit: We read Percy Jackson each year because I can tie in Greek history and they get a kick out of that. We do read plenty of books they enjoy but I HAVE to expose them to historical literature or "classics" such as The Outsiders which most may not consider a classic yet. Most of my students come to me because their home schools have given up on them and can't figure out how to teach them. I have a specialized classroom designed for their needs and while it is a relaxing place I force them to challenge themselves and at times the work is far tougher than in their home school because I do have that easier environment to learn in. But they all come out better people because of it. If I don't they won't be prepared for high school and I have yet to have a student not finish a book and love it after six years in this group. Yes it's hard and yes they fight at first but once we see in there I see the light in their eyes and I know I have them hooked.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: They choose the books based of Historical/cultural significance and writing quality. Basically all the books you study should be chosen based on some important theme in them - of Mice and Men is about the depression, Gatsby is about the Roaring Twenties and To Kill a Mockingbird is about racism and the Great Depression. This can inform the students about important context (especially Mockingbird) and a 'real connection' often makes books more attractive to study. 

The other reason is that these books are easy to analyse. They are full of symbolism, foreshadowing and the historical context. Books like Frankenstein might be a dry read but it is a goldmine for analysis, and the deeper themes present (social commentary, (possible) homosexuality) means you can go to town on them. It is far easier to study that (and will benefit your skills more) than to go for something more enjoyable and (often) newer - which are often more readable but less deep (or restrictively long). 

Of Mice and Men is a really easy text to do analysis in, it's short and full of foreshadowing. Gatsby also has foreshadowing, but also themes of wealth, inequality etc. And some books can be 'read into' easily - that Nick is gay is not specific in the text but many student pick that up and believe it, it gives chances to develop skills simpler books don't have. 

These make then qualify for the studying 'cannon', books like Gatsby and Of Mice and Men are chosen a lot because of the wealth of secondary literature on them, making critical opinion easy to find.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: There are two reasons we read these books: 

1. The books are part of a group of well-respected books called "the canon." These are books that over the years scholars have studied again and again until they became "classic."

2. Out of all the books in the canon, some are easier to teach because  they are more obvious in their use of literary devices (tools writers use to make their points). The Great Gatsby, for example, uses metaphors and symbolism all over the place. They're easy to point out and kids get a quick win when they recognize them. 

Most high school reading fulfills both of these criteria. Occasionally you'll see teachers pick books that aren't classic but have a literary device they want to teach, or you'll see books from the canon that are harder to teach but important to learn (some Shakespeare). But you'll seldom see some of the denser  or more ambiguous books in the canon: I've yet to see a high school teacher try to teach Ulysses. 

Edit: TIL that plenty of high schools were way cooler than my kinda crappy backwater public school and taught Joyce's Ulysses. Color me jealous.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: They are easy to teach. 

Of Mice and Men is packed full of figurative language and writing tools (metaphors, similes, foreshadowing, imagery, idioms and personification), which is necessary for teaching English and writing. 

It is relatively short so not unreasonable to expect students to be able to read it in full in a short period of time and not expensive to print, relatively speaking. 

There are lots of classic and canon books out there, but they can be too long, or the symbolism is absent or too obscure  &  complex for high-school teaching. 

Also I love John Steinbeck so don't mind adding that it is genuinely an enjoyable and unpretentious book to read as well. 

(I haven't read Gatsby so no idea on that one)
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: I have taught in South Central LA and I now teach in Urban Indonesia. I have yet to have one student not connect personally to Of Mice and Men. Whether they are in a gang or a billionaire (I've taught both) there is something in there for them. Part of literature and story-telling is that it unites us all. Good stories can transcend time and culture. The mythical Canon is usually made up of books that teachers believe do these things.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: So my wife is an English teacher and she is going through the process to pick out her books for next school year right now. The teachers are limited by a number of factors. 

To start, they are limited by school funding and student fees. My wife's school won't let her spend more than $12 worth of books per student, she since teaches in a poor rural Ohio school district. Because of this limit, she can only spend $3-4 per book. That limits her to only the mass market books. In truth, she wants to branch out to do different, more modern works, but just buying one would blow her entire budget and leave her without enough materials to stretch out through the entire school year. 

Second, she has to choose books that fit into her student reading levels. They use lexile ranges, which are a way to measure reading levels. Lexile ranges don't necessarily correlate with grade level. She teaches 9th and 10th grades and she has students reading between 2nd and 12th grade reading levels. How does she choose novels that fit for all of them? She can't. 

Third, she has to deal with the administrators. Some of the administrators are very opinionated about what books are taught. "To Kill A Mocking fits with what the 10th graders are learning in social studies, so I want to you teach that to your sophomores." The administrators are also much more difficult to convince the value of some of these more modern and innovative books she wants to teach. 

So between all of these factors, my wife only has a handful of books to choose from. So you know what she ends up having to order? The old standards. In some cases, she doesn't mind, but she is definitely annoyed by how little room choice she has in the selections.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Follow up question: How do we benefit from Shakespeare? The language within his work is a fantasy language based of a dialect of English that's been dead for more than 2 centuries. On top of that nothing in any of the stories I read taught me anything along the lines of morals or even proper story structure. They were just a giant mess of random problems and solutions that seemed extremely pointless.

Not to mention characters lacked any depth whatsoever and their intent was usually apparent within their first scene.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: They live in the sweet spot for the reading comprehension level in high school.  Easy themes, short, secular,

Plus they teach you valuable life lessons.  Like wearing a glove full of vaseline to keep your hand soft for your fiance.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: When I took an Access to University course I  learned so much.  We studied a variety of subjects; history, psychology, English literature were my main three; and I found that they all went hand in hand.

We studied One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest by Ken Kesey, Trumpet by Jackie Kay, the poetry of Maya Angelou, , A Passageway to India and The God of Small Things by Arundhati Roy.  We did some Shakespeare and short stories by Roahl Dahl, The Vendetta by Guy de Maupassant, The Veldt by Ray Bradbury, Town and Country Lovers by Nadine Gordimer and poetry by the Bront sisters.

This literature is like a snapshot of the time in which it is written.  Not only do you learn about the style of writing a great deal, you also pick up knowledge of important events and themes that made me feel more well rounded as an adult.  

I wasn't a feminist until I was introduced to the idea through history and literature.  I learned about the Suffragettes in History, read literature that illustrated examples of prejudice in action in English Lit, and studied the psychology of discrimination and prejudice in Psychology.  

They expanded my knowledge of Apartheid, mental health before the 60s and how this tied in to women and the idea that both the mentally ill and women were discriminated against and locked away.  

I learned about Slavery and Racism, and how that tied in to feminism.  And society and class, again showing the oppression of minorities and looking really at the different ways we identify ourselves and others, and how that can make us feel, both good and bad.

As I learned I realised that not only was this studying helping prepare me to learn at a higher level, I was becoming more well rounded as a person.  Knowledge was not the only thing imparted, it shaped me and the way I thought.  I learned more about myself on that course than in the whole of my life before it, it showed me ideas that I had never considered before, taught me how to think critically and how to express myself.  

When I looked back at the literature I studied in high school, I had a much deeper understanding of why I was taught these things. Literature was a vehicle for so much more than words on a page.  It helped me to see why I studied, who I was inside, what my values were, what direction I wanted my life to go in and broadened my horizons in life.  I wanted to know more about everything.  

I've not done my degree yet and it's been a while since I studied so forgive me if I am not entirely clear or have gotten any authors or titles wrong.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Considered part of the canon of English literature (heavily read, written about, and esteemed) and are also both accessible, easy, and short compared to many classics.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Books such as Gatsby and OMAM are chosen because they are arguably the most accurate representations of the literary philosophies of their respective time periods. Perhaps the very reason that English classes study books at all is to gain an understanding of the author and his/her perspective, but these so-called classic books give insight to the opinions and values of the masses at the time. For example, Gatsby was written by one of the prime modernist writers, F. Scott Fitzgerald, who was able to really capture the essence of early 20th century America in the novel. Because of this, students can go back and study Gatsby to gain some kind of understanding of what life may have been like during that era and possibly garner some new perspective that can be applied to their own belief systems.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: As an English Lit grad, high school teacher and college prof, I love this post and all the discussion, passion and debate.

Harold Bloom offers us his version of a western canon of 26 works and explains why they should be part of the canon.
_URL_6_

Although Bloom does not ELI5, it does offer us a succinct list. But it also points out that anyone can make their own canon. Although Bloom is not just anyone in scholarly circles.
He also makes explicit that his is a "Western" canon. Other canons exist, either by geography or by theme, style, gender, period, language etc. The number of canons could be endless.

An author that tops my canon is Milan Kundera, and my favourite is "Immortality".
b p nichol is my favourite poet. So playful and free!
Not sure if these make my canon, but I love reading Vonnegut, Hunter S Thompson, Chuck Palahniuk. 
I couldn't wait to share each new Harry Potter novel with my son and loved how so many of my students got turned on to reading by J K Rowling.
Was about to submit, but can't without adding Arthur C Clarke, Robert Heinlein and even the Ender's Game series although I choke a little when I think about its author's religious and moral beliefs.

Keep reading and enjoying literature!
Who is in your canon or canons?

edit: replaced book cover with blurry angel butt with alternative edition
 
 _URL_5_
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Any combination of these:

(a) They're considered classics because people still enjoy them (or find value in them) long after they were published;

(b) They're considered edifying, in that typically they have a strong moral message;

(c) They present a full smorgasbord of things that can be studied, such as strong narrative themes, characterisation, cultural properties, historical interest, and so on.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: I'm a high school teacher. I teach those books because I like them. Many people who are extremely uninformed about education standards will tell you that I have to follow some formula or series of worksheets, but in reality the English standards can be easily applied to any book as long as they aren't  commercial fiction. I enjoyed those books, so I get to force students to read things I like. I'm definitely not about to spend 40 weeks a year trudging through books I hate. It's hard enough to get students to do and enjoy reading, not liking the book yourself just makes it harder.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Most curriculum cover brit lit, or american lit, which explains certain titles of literature chosen from that time,but most always they choose from classics, specifically from what's called the "western canon", a selection thought to heavily shape western civilization.

_URL_7_
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Easiest TLDR I can think of for this:

You know how stories always reference other stories? Like when the Simpsons references Rocky 5 or something?

"The Canon" in any kind of literature are the books that all the other books reference back to. So "The Great Gatsby" is important beacuse almost every other book about "the american dream" that was made afterwards contains some kind of allusion back to that book. Shakespeare matters because later plays all referenced back to Shakespeare. Frankenstein matters because every story afterwards about "science gone mad" references back to it. Every fantasy novel references back to "Lord of the Rings", which itself references back to "Beowulf" and similar legends. 

It's not universal or automatic, and there's always debate about which ones count, but usually books are chosen because of their importance on that level.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: One factor that I haven't seen mentioned (though hinted at): a book that is public domain usually costs ten times less than a book that is still under copyright.

This means that there is also a substantial *practical* reason why many schools will restrict their classroom supplies to older works.

(There is also perhaps an additional angle that it is presumably more difficult for a work to enter the canon when it is still under copyright because people are not so free to share it or reimagine it or rework it or recast it. Whenever its nature of being private-property conflicts with its nature of being culture, its nature as private-property often has legal priority.)
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: As an English teacher - they're the only books the school has copies of so we get to read them. Specially true with Shakespeare. O I love him but I don't love Romeo and Juliet or Midsummer's Night Dream. I'd love to read a winter's tale or richard III. Or even a play by a different author from the same time like The Roaring Girl which is about a girl who dresses like a man and had sword fights. But the schools can't afford new books.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: When teachers see those books they think: -

Oh, what a cute little book.  Just what I always wanted. My own little book. I will name him George, and I will hug him and pet him and squeeze him and pat him and pet him and rub him and caress him and...
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Classics in American literature are chosen because the story or the hero reflects an important part of U.S. culture, ideals, or history.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: I'm probably too late for this shindig, but there's an important component I see many people missing, and this is, in my view, the most important reason we read books like Huck Finn, The Great Gatsby, and Pride and Prejudice.

Yes, part of the answer here is the 'canon', i.e. there's a (possibly arbitrary) group of central texts chosen by old white dudes with Oedipus complexes. Look at other comments for answers about the canon.

Now, I have a problem with the 'canon' answer because it's overly simplified, and is often used as a false comfort. 'The Canon' is the answer people want to hear if they don't understand why they're being made to read *The Great Gatsby*. That is, if you're just bored by *The Great Gatsby*, it's comforting to say, "Well, some boring old white dudes arbitrarily decided I should read this when really it's just boring drivel that has no relevance to modern life and that's Fitzgerald's fault, not mine, let's move on to Harry Potter. Fuck the canon, it's racist." (The canon is, indeed, pretty racist, but let's move on)

**Something I don't see people talking about, however, is literary tradition, which I see as the more significant reason to read writers like Fitzgerald and Steinbeck.**

To explain: writers read each other. Whom writers read and whom writers like will impact their own work. Toni Morrison's *Beloved* is illuminated if, afterwards, you read Faulkner. Morrison wrote a Ph.D. on Faulkner for cryin' out loud. That doesn't mean you can't read *Beloved* without *As I Lay Dying*; it simply means Beloved will be a different, and more interesting book if you do. You can't fully appreciate J.G. Ballard unless you also understand Joseph Conrad. J.G. Ballard is basically using the exact same metaphors as Conrad, just updated and less racist. He's admitted as such. If you read Virginia Woolf before you read Ursula K. Le Guin, you'll be amazed by the connections you'll make. The texts dance with each other. It doesn't matter that Le Guin writes Science Fiction and Woolf writes in the mode of Modernism--Le Guin has been heavily influenced by Woolf, and reading the two together is very enlightening.

And then come the two giants of them all: Shakespeare and The Bible. Look, you can read literature without having read any Shakespeare or any of the Bible, but that doesn't mean you'll be erasing the ginormous impact these works have had on literature. In the most fundamental ways, the language of The Bible has seeped into the entire umbrella of English literature. Even if you don't know it as a writer, you're either adopting the ways The Bible uses words, or rebelling against it. No matter what, you're always responding to it. It doesn't even need to be purposeful on your part.

So, yes, there's an aspect of 'the canon', but the canon wasn't just chosen by stuffy old white men. It was also chosen by writers, and a writer worth their salt will have read from the canon, and will know what interests them, and what they think is missing. To track this progression can give us insight into the way dialogues in our culture develop. It isn't arbitrary that Toni Morrison is following in Faulkner's footsteps, and it certainly isn't because some old white dudes told her to and that was that.

Part of the issue is that high school students don't necessarily have the perspective available to approach some of these texts, and it's often in high school where these texts are read. For example, what does an expedition down the misty Congo river have to offer to someone going into engineering, or politics, or environmental science? I think the reason a book like Conrad's *Heart of Darkness* evades us is because books like it are often taught in the wrong way.

Here are some ways to rethink some of the writers you didn't appreciate in high school:

**Jane Austen** is the Lena Dunham of Gentry Era fiction. She's a ruthlessly observational genius filled with radical ideas about women and romance. She's totally brutal, too. A good high school teacher will guide you to see how fucking hilarious Jane Austen is. She's a bitch, and she knows it, and she doesn't care. For example, There's a whole section in Pride and Prejudice where Mr. Bingley attempts to justify his bad handwriting by arguing that he's just really smart and thinks too quickly. Austen writes this dialogue so perfectly, so cunningly that, in the end, her character Elizabeth totally brings Mr. Bingley down to size. We've all met people like Mr. Bingley, is the thing. However, if you don't understand how Austen's humor works, it could come off as simply gentle banter. Furthermore, her legacy is still felt today.

**Joseph Conrad** fathered (or at least perfected) a certain kind of thinking. His works combine intense societal critiques through the power of individual consciousness. Basically, he's one of the original "the personal is the political". Even if you don't like *Heart of Darkness*, you're never escaping its impact (which has been followed by many great socialist thinkers btw).

**Mark Twain** basically created American literature. It was mostly very puritan before he came along to satirize the moralization and piety of American literature coming before him. There's no way in hell that some stuffy white men facilitated this. American writers like John Steinbeck, Faulkner, Don Delillo and I'd even argue Bret Easton Ellis have all learned lessons from Mark Twain. His lasting impression isn't because a couple of Harvard deans standing around in a room smoking cigars suddenly decided he's interesting. It's because he's a great writer, and writers after him have either copied him or tried to repurpose his techniques.

 **Shakespeare** literally somehow captured and predicted every single literary movement that has happened and probably will ever happen. If you feel a certain way, Shakespeare has written about it. If you don't like Shakespeare, it isn't because you're right. It's because you didn't have a good professor to guide you. I know that may make you feel insecure. How could one dude be so amazing? Well, he was, and you need to deal with it. Shakespeare is the only writer I can say this about with absolute confidence. With the proper introduction, he's one of the most fascinating writers (if not *the* most). But he absolutely needs a guide.

This goes into the very purpose of literature, which is this: if we want political progress, scientific progress, mathematical progress, we need to know how to redefine our own personal vocabularies. All great writers have, in some way or another, reinvigorated or dismantled the old cliches of their times to document the cultural, intellectual, and psychic changes they observed. Writers give us language we can use to explore our experiences, and reading in terms of a tradition helps us see how languages and conversations develop.

If you want to dismantle the cliches of conservative America, or SJW liberals, or Orthodox Christians, it helps tremendously to see how geniuses have done so in their own contexts.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: what I never understood is why we were forced to read Shakespeare. I had so many teachers who hated it. When you're 14 years old in ninth grade, even the spark notes version doesn't really make sense. What they should really do is strength your ability to write, so you don't end up like all the college kids in my classes who still didn't know how to use a semicolon

they focused way way too much on expository writing. They should be teaching research based more, learning how to get the facts. Technical is good too, and creative writing is a really good way to expand your mind.

our public education system in America is lacking, a great example is how it is heavily based too much in the past. The world changes and so should the way we teach. The fact that not a single class I ever took in public school history went beyond the Cold War means they really don't give a shit. How are we supposed to focus on changing the future if you don't teach your kids what happened in the past 30 years, but rather what happened 600 years ago.  I had three classes on the French revolution but never once learned about the Vietnam war or first or second Gulf Wars

Public education in the USA in 99% garbage. You want our kids to be successful, so you teach them nothing and then blame them for incompetence. Fuck the baby boomer generation
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: First off, my credentials: B.A. in English from UC Santa Barbara, M.A. in Modern Literature from Queen Mary University of London.

John Steinbeck and F. Scott Fitzgerald are canonical American authors. Period. Full stop. Why? They were best sellers. Why? Because they captured what is known as the "zeitgeist" or the 'spirit of the era,' to paraphrase. They also happened to be masters of the novel form. Don't believe me? Read "East of Eden" and "Tender Is the Night." Disagree? Go ahead. Write something better. These men wrote what is known as "the great American novel." Who will be next?

You?

Her?

Me? 

Who knows?

Bye.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: I have a BA and MA in English Lit, and I am currently studying to be a high school English teacher. I have been asking myself the same question as I try to figure out what I will be able, or required, to teach.
I think there are three aspects to your question. I will address each briefly, sharing what I have learned so far in my own research.  

1. Why are books like Of Mice and Men and the Great Gatsby taught instead of other kinds of easier, more interesting books, like science fiction, fantasy, young adult fiction, or popular novels like mysteries or thrillers? This question is relatively easy to answer-literary merit and textual complexity. In ELI5 terms, the books are great but hard. Many posts have already addressed the issue of greatness (literary merit), and the issue of difficulty (textual complexity) has also been mentioned, and I don't really have anything to add. If you are interested in learning more about this aspect of your question, I recommend reading the [Common Core Standards for English Language Arts](_URL_8_), which also provides a list of sample books for high school English classes.

2. Why are books like Of Mice and Men and The Great Gatsby commonly chosen, instead of other books that are just as great, and just as hard? This question is harder to answer, and, in my opinion, more interesting. It seems that there are a small number of books and writers commonly taught across the country-Steinbeck, Fitzgerald, Angelou, etc. Yet there are hundreds of other writers and thousands (tens of thousands) of other books that are just as great, and just as hard. California alone has identified [421 recommended books](_URL_9_.) that can be taught in CA high school English classes, many of which I have never heard of. I think a lot of this has to do with force of habit-one generation decides these books should be taught, so the next generation believes that these are the books that should be taught, which leads to them teaching these books to the third generation, and so on. The novelist Francine Prose makes this argument in her essay [I Know Why the Caged Bird Cant Read](_URL_10_)(She also argues that many commonly-taught books, like Of Mice and Men and To Kill a Mockingbird, are not that great and should not be taught.).

3. The "how" part of your question-what is the process by which books like Of Mice and Men and The Great Gatsby are chosen for high school English classes? Many posts have talked about this already. I would only add that it seems many schools use anthologies, (textbooks that contain poems, short stories, plays, and novels, as well as questions and assignments), and that teachers have to teach the books in the anthologies. Of course, this raises the question of why publishers include certain books in the anthologies, and why schools choose certain anthologies. These are also interesting questions. Unfortunately, I have little to share here. I will, however, predict that high schools will more and more end up teaching the same small number of writers and books because of the Common Core educational standards. The Common Core standards identify a small number of sample books that meet the standards, and I predict publishers will end up including these books in their anthologies, with the result that these books will end up being taught in public schools everywhere. For all I know, this is happening already. (It is also possible publishers will try to be different by choosing different books. I hope this turns out to be the case.) 
Edited for formatting.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Because books like these contain many levels and layers of meaning to reflect upon.  Some of those layers will be noticed by teenagers, perhaps some mostly by adults, and perhaps even some only to senior citizens.  As a reader grows, evolves, and gains life experience there are new ways to look at them in addition to the teenage ways.  This is why "old, stuffy, white, or male" readers might consider them worth rereading in the first place.  If there was something about the books that continued to resonate with those readers, then that value will be available for the following generations of readers.  In short, the books of the 1920's that did NOT resonate with teenage readers of subsequent generations aren't being taught in English classes.  Likewise, books written in 2017 that do not resonate with subsequent generations will NOT be taught in English classes in the beginning of the 22nd century (regardless of the race or gender of the author.)  It takes a long time to realize this.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: here is an alternate view of why

Because some pretentious people in the past, that invented fictitious reasons why the books were awesome, told younger people that these books were awesome...and being young some of them believed the pretentious people knew wtf they were talking about. They in turn got into positions of authority and regurgitated the same crap to more future young people. 

Now we and our children and our children's children are stuck reading the same boring books because some a-hole 60+ years ago thought they manufactured some hidden meaning or lesson from something that was just a book.

this is the same principle behind rich people pretending that caviar and pt actually taste good....when in reality they both taste like crap
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: The "great books" don't always cover deep topics but also are considered benchmarks in the use of language.   My favorite example is Moby Dick.  As a book it's frankly boring, but open it to any random page and read any random paragraph and it's just perfect.  Somehow Melville wrote an 800+ page epic in which every piece of it reads like poetry.  Ditto Shakespeare.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: I don't know, All I remember is that in secondary 5 (Quebec french school) I had to read "Des souris et des hommes" in french class and "Les miserb" in english litterature at the same time... a whole semester hearing "Jean Valjean" in english when 100% of the students were native french speakers. Teachers do whatever they want I think.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: As a professional writer, subjecting students to the classics before they have a baseline enjoyment of the act of reading fiction really chafes me. I think a LOT of young readers are permanently turned off of prose fiction because of stuffy, obtuse, irrelevant shit they were forced to read in high school.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Look up "literary merit." Certain works of literature express literary merit usually because a number of scholars can identify profound significance (ie beyond being a good story). Whether it actually exists is another matter.

Of course, this assumes a five year old can use Google.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: It's important that kids know what great literature is, even if it's "forced" on them. They may not like it when reading it at first but at least they get to know that there is more to literature than Harry Potter and the likes.

It's like when I was younger I was exposed to all that great music from my parents all the time. Even if I didn't like it and preferred my own modern music at the time, it gave me a sense of what music could be. As I got older, I learned to appreciate great classic music and different genres which I might not have developed if it wasn't for my exposure to it when I was younger.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Dale Carnegie once said that when he goes fishing, he doesnt use strawberries and cream as bait, but worms. Now he can never understand what fish find so appealing about worms, but then again, he doesnt have to.

So to answer your question, schools are fishing (teaching) with strawberries and cream (literary classics) and wondering why the fish (students) arent biting (reading).

Im sure the denizens of this subreddit will downvote me to death, which is fine, but remember, teaching is about relating to the student more than getting the student to relate to you.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: I'm super late to this, but can someone tell me what are the reading requirements in American high schools? 

I know it differs according to the teacher or school, but I'd just like to get some examples of reading lists. I'm from Europe and every year we got a list of books we were required to read. It was a mix of national literature classics and world literature classics. I'm wondering how similar are our lists to American and other lists around the world.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Ooh ooh I got one more for this one. How are graphic stories like "The Lottery" allowed for children to read in English/ELA classes? I read that and the lesson was "somethings were deemed too inappropriate" and that was it. Had to write a book report on a stoning which could still be very possible just because of the wow factor of the story at the time of its original release, nothing of value was learned from it.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: We had to read Fahrenheit 451 in eighth grade (I was 13) and it seriously changed a lot of my opinions and beliefs. I got super involved in class while we were reading it. Then I read The Great Gatsby when I was 15, which I also fell in love with. These classes helped me appreciate books besides teen fiction. So I'm pretty glad I was forced to read these classics.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Ill pitch in because Im an English teacher. Usually the books we read in class are determined by what we have available in storage. There isn't a big annual budget for new books so we work with what we have. Shitty answer but true. I cant ask my students to buy their own books so short of the cost coming out of my pocket, my hands are tied.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Both are great books. Personally, I enjoyed reading them in my English classes. We also read To Kill A Mocking Bird, Lord of The Flies, The Odyssey, and Huck Finn which I think are great books as well. The way I see it, reading these books not only challenge students but also exposes them to different genres of story telling aside from Harry Potter, Hunger Games, etc.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: I remember having this same thought in school while reading one of the many short storya out of the big litarature text books. Always being asked to reflectand find meaning in the stories. I always missed the big obvious morals and made up my own whimsicle reflection.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Possibly because they are great books, they challange students and deal with important political and moral issues that we often still deal with today. Like acceptance and stuff like that. That's my opinion anyways. Could be wrong. :)
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: The fact that they are short is more important than it should be. There are other reasons, but short makes books a lot easier to teach.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Of course the answers from English teachers are multiple paragraphs long that could be summed up in just a few sentences.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Circling the wagons and protecting the narrative. 

Like if you had engineers teach English they'd cover comic books and manga.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: Books like 1984 or similar things are read in school usually to help teach critical thinking and logic.
question: How and why are books like The Great Gatsby and Of Mice and Men chosen for reading in English classes? answer: And when will we start having useful ones chosen that will help with adulting?
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Former police officer here.

Silence is awkward. Me and my partner would ask a very simple question and then just not talk. The need to fill in the silence is to great for most low level offenders, they just start talking. Add that and the fact that many low level offenders aren't that intelligent and well... They just have diarrhea of the mouth. 

Also, you'd be flat out amazed at how many people don't really know their rights. Now, you may be asking yourself, "Don't police have to read off the Miranda Rights?" The answer is no. Not unless the person is actually under arrest. If I just suspect you of committing the crime, I'm going to ask questions, use awkward silence, hope you don't know your rights, and let you spew out everything I need.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: because people are stupid and think they can "talk their way out" of a situation.

or because they are emotional and "feel better" getting it off their chest.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Because they were never able to watch this video: _URL_0_ which tells you exactly why you should never talk to cops.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: I had one interaction with the police.  A cop called stating he was getting promoted to a new group and had to "close out a few files" and needed my help.  After a few questions a realized I was being interrogated and began pleading the 5th.  The cop starting acting furious and threatened to arrest me but I kept pleading the 5th. 

It was over a minor auto accident -- no damage on either car -- but the other party claimed a fled.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: my criminal justice professor always told us during class - "Do not have diarrhea of the mouth."

He was a Part Time lawyer when he wasn't teaching class. He told us that he would have been able to get most of his clients off with no jail time if they had just shut their mouth.

I'll never forget that.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: I don't like acting like a smart ass around cops with traffic offenses, generally because there are so many things that could be considered technically illegal that a cop may just add more infringements.

I've been done for speeding and I tried the keep silent tactic, yet the cop said "If we are playing this game then I can also book you for your slightly flat tire or your previous registration stick not being peeled off properly".

Sometimes paying the fine is just easier than fighting the system... Obviously for harsher charges you may want to fight however.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Because people are stupid. People try to talk themselves out of trouble, when they usually talk themselves into trouble. I believe the line is "anything you say can and will be used AGAINST you..."
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: * they don't know their rights
* police have a lot of practice manipulating people and making them think they have to answer questions when they don't
* police often use the prospect of a minor offense or the inconvenience of an arrest as leverage to get questions answered
* people often don't realize they are going to be arrested, and think they can still talk their way out of it
* a lot of people are criminals because they aren't well educated or particularly bright
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Honestly, that is a good question. If you have committed a crime, the police are not going to do you any favors. Keeping your mouth shut is really the best thing to do and ask for an attorney.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Because they wrongly believe not talking would be an admission of guilt, telling their version of the story may help them, or they're stupid.

[Don't Talk to Police](_URL_1_)
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: When the police were looking for me to arrest me, they called me to ask me to come into the station under the pretense that they weren't going to arrest me and--more so--that I wasn't a suspect.

I told them that I would get back to them when I had heard from my lawyer about when--based on her schedule--she'd be able to accompany me. They immediately went into a rant about how I didn't need a lawyer and it would be a big waste of my money.

I knew better and could afford the lawyer. But lots of people might have heard that and decided to risk it because they trusted the police. I don't know how legal the cops saying "don't bring a lawyer" was, but I image it's quite common.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: I have a related question. In practice, how does getting a lawyer work? Will the police give you a list of them? Naturally, you won't have a list you carry all the time. How long will they wait, say on a road accident, if you are to find a lawyer to represent you?
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: I don't know why people talk to the police either.

I was arrested and the police tried to talk to me.  They used the silent treatment to get me to talk, they used the good cop/bad cop method, they used the insulting me method, they used the hey-we're-your-buddy-want-a-coke method, the attempt to establish rapport method, the we're-angry-you-won't-talk-so-we'll-handcuff-you-then-forget-we-need-to-fingerprint-you method.

The cops gave me the printed miranda rights and checked them off and explained them, which was interesting because I hear many people get slid a piece of paper and they try to scam you with not telling you what it is.

In the end, I didn't say anything other than, "I guess it's time for me to go to jail", which pissed them off and went to jail.

I was charged with eleven felony counts and had to go through a number of plea offers, which got progressively worse, but I ignored all those too.

Eventually I got a deal I could live with, and got house arrest for eleven felony counts, and I'm not proud to say this, but I'm glad because there were a whole bunch more they could have gotten and didn't know about.

The only reason I got no prison time is because I didn't say a damn word, and they had nothing to go on.  They also messed up some procedural things that were big problems for them, and because I didn't talk, and didn't accept plea deals for prison time, I got to walk out of there.

Don't talk to the police when you have real issues.  You need to let it work through the legal system.  Cops aren't relevent, it's prosecutors that matter.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Three reasons:

They falsely believe that explaining how they are innocent is a good idea that will change the situation in any way.(if they are innocent)

They falsely believe that explaining how they are innocent is a good idea that will change the situation in any way.(if they are guilty)

They are unable to control their emotions caused by being arrested and are so angry/sad that they express that through words(and sometimes by resisting)
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: People like to talk.     
Just look at all the comments on reddit.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: There's a lot of really interesting information on this.  In fact, if you're truly interested, i suggest listening to the "interrogation" episode of "stuff you should know, it's fascinating.

_URL_2_

There are a lot of reasons.  A lot of times people think they'll be viewed as more of a suspect if they resist, where as if they seem helpful they might be not viewed of as much of a suspect.

Also, trained information gatherers also make it seem like they're on your side, that everything you did is perfectly understandable and if they know more they'll be able to clear everything up and go after the REAL bad guys.

A lot of people unconsciously talk more when feeling guilty or that their hiding something, having to do with "how could i know all this detail if i was lying?"

It's really interesting stuff.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: In the words of the great philosopher Sir Shrek , "Donkey, you HAVE the right to remain silent. What you lack, is the capacity!"
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: People are irrational and incompetent. The practice of not speaking to someone who's interacting with you is way too alien and contradictory to everything a person has done one's whole life. In other words, they're not used to it. It is indeed that simple.

Rest assured that professional criminals, do indeed exercise their right to remain silent. That or being tried or convicted is part of their plans. They even know when to tell that they exercise this right.
Some experienced and classy criminals will have mastered the art to do talk to the police, while not saying anything that can actually be held against them. It's a very difficult game. Don't play it.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: They believe that innocent people don't go to jail so they must clearly explain how they're innocent (even if guilty). What they don't understand is that a police officer isn't a judge and it's not his job to decide who's guilty and who's not. He's just there to collect evidence and you really don't want to give him any evidence that could be used against you.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Seriously, there's a saying: "No confession, no conviction" keep your fucking mouth shut, they aren't your friends, talking to them definitely *will not* "help you in the long run, or make it "easier on you". I personally love when two people involved in a crime are questioned separately, then told that the other one ratted them out already, so they might as well talk. I cannot believe in this day and age that this tactic still works. All these shows like "Cops" or "The First 48" do is show teach you how *not* to act in an interrogation room. Just keep your fucking mouth shut, and keep asking for your attorney. One last note: in your local jail, don't say shit to your cellmates about anything that you did, some of these fuckers are snitches. Just keep quite ffs.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Some think they can talk their way out of the situation.  Often cops lie to them to get them to talk.  Sometimes cops subject them to heavy interrogation tactics, for example, keep them in the interrogation room for long periods of time.  Some people are innocent and think all they need to do is explain their side of the story.  Some people think the cops are their friends and looking out for their best interests (they're not).
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Don't forget the power of asking a reasonable question in a reasonable manner. If I ask you "So, what did you do this morning?" it's not an unreasonable question. 

You would be amazed at how often people answer questions just because they don't want to seem like total pricks.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: A good amount of it is ignorance of the law. I know some friends who openly admit to selling drugs and I remind them about the statute of limitations on certain crimes
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: I hope this doesn't get buried, but particularly addressing this question to police: I've heard many reasons for why you shouldn't talk to police, I've seen the 50 minute lecture by a lawyer and a cop giving many examples how one can be harmed by what they say even if they are completely innocent. But, when does this not talking to police apply? It seems like it only applies when  you are committing to dealing with the legal system, i.e. obtaining  a lawyer, court dates, etc. What if I'm being pulled over for speeding? Obviously it seems if I stay silent, I'll just get a ticket for speeding. "Do you know how fast you were going?" What do I say? no? I don't know? I prefer not to answer? I understand when it comes to speeding tix it's slightly different than other law breakings where you actually have a chance at not bullshitting the cop and getting a warning out of compassion. But, am I obligated to answer auxiliary questions like, "where you coming from? " or "where you going?" 1) I know not answering these questions might throw out the compassionate speeding pardon, but 2) would it be any grounds for reasonable suspicion for anything further-- at least legally?  Cop might think "hmm guy is not answering where he is coming from, sounds sketchy, do a sobriety test"  It's tricky because a sobriety test can be invoked based off cop's subjective senses i.e.-smelly breath. And by me being uncooperative with not answering their auxiliary questions, can just piss them off and claim your breath smells. 

Let's say I did just have a few beers before slightly speeding and got pulled over. It seems like in this case, I'd want to answer any auxiliary questions as to not agitate the cop to come up with a subjective (bullshit) reason to further hassle and potentially uncover my 2 beer BAC.

Tl;dr- Will not talking to police in certain situations directly/indirectly envoke some kind of bullshit (yet legal) reasonable suspicion for them to further detain you and buy more time for you to fuck up in front of them? How to avoid those situations?
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Actually, according to the supreme court you dont have the right to remain silent. You must speak and invoke your fifth amendment rights before you can be afforded its protections. Its nonsense but apparently its how the courts see the fifth amendment. 

On the otherhand, its not always smart to remain entirely silent, acting like you cant hear anything they say. Sometimes, pissing off the police doesnt work in your favor. Things like "I'm fine today officer, and you?", "Am I being detained?" or "I'd like to have a lawyer present before I respond to any questions" are perfectly fine things to say. In fact, I'd say theyre preferable to just remaining entirely silent.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Sometimes it is in your best interest to talk to them.  If they are there for a noise complaint and you slam the door in their face instead of just saying you'll turn it down, that will only lead to more problems.  If you are getting a ticket and only roll down the window a crack while acting like a smart ass, the cop will play hardball too and bring out a K9.  If you are actually in trouble and getting questioned don't tell them anything.  However, don't go out of your way to piss them off when they don't suspect anything in the first place.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: It's not surprising that there were so many false hits. Hell if the dog smells bacon they'll hit. The dog isn't fool proof, it's a living animal we use as a tool. And it's not like I'm worried about joe blow the crack head. I want Joe's dealer. If a stop leads to an arrest I wanna go up the chain and like I said in the other post if you don't have drugs sorry I kept you here's your traffic ticket
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Because when people are scared they try to negotiate. It's a psychological coping mechanism that police and others unfairly take advantage of all the time.

You people saying "people are stupid," etc I would love to see how you react when getting arrested for the first time. Especially as a middle class white person who thinks they have "rights."
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Because cops pull the whole "just tell me now or else I can't help you" routine. They're not your friends and they're not going to help you. Just because he has a badge doesn't mean everything he says is gospel. The last time I got pulled over I don't think I said more than ten words.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Some people still think the police are their friend. (I AM pro justice and pro police. What I mean here, is when police are asking questions, they're trying to find someone to arrest. That is their job. Being my friend, is not. Uphold the law, yes. Break the law, or be my friend, no. )
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Most people are just non-confrontational so they will say whatever to take the pressure off a situation.  Combine that with no real sense of how the law really works and boom, you said something that put you in jail for 35 years.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: You tend to fill uncomfortable silences with babble. It's a human thing to do and cops are trained to create those silences.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: because if stupid enough to go against law and stupid enough to get cought, then probably stupid
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: This answer's the question and everyone should see this!

 _URL_3_
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Because they don't quite fathom the situation they are in.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Because a majority of people are stupid. Same as always.
question: why does anyone talk to the police if they have the right to remain silent?If one had the right to remain silent, why does anyone talk to the police -- especially if guilty?  It seems all one does is incriminate themselves.  answer: Because some people dont have the ability to remain silent
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Theres a lot involved here. There have actually been studies on it. Believe it or not though women tend to run warmer than men as far as core body temp goes, though their extremities (hands/feet) are significantly colder than those of a man. 
Its quite interesting to see how its broken down in [this article](_URL_0_)
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Since girls can make babies, the area around their tummies need to be warmer to keep the baby safe and comfortable. Heat is taken from girls arms and legs and given to the tummy area which makes girls feel a little colder on the outside than boys.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Women have several things that make them feel colder, and they have to do with making them better able to carry a child. 

Women tend to have slightly higher body temps than men on average, which means that what they sense as being cold will be slightly higher than what men do. 

And they also tend to have poorer circulation in their extremities which will make their hands and feet more likely to be cold.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: I can't tell more than what's already been told from a biological perspective.

But I'll add a thought:

While women are generally more prone to being cold than men, women clothes are, again generally, thinner and less covering (compare men and women tops, sweaters, pants). This makes no sense
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: I have a follow up question to this. Before getting pregnant,  my wife was always colder than most people (including other women). Starting around the end of the first trimester and continuing to today (kid is 6), she is always warmer than most people (including me and other men). Any ideas?
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Bruh this is why I won't shower with my girlfriend. She's always freezing, her skin is as cold as the depths of space, and she turns only the hot water on when she showers, shits like 120 degrees.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Body fat and hormones (I think) are two factors I recall my first year professor telling us about this when a question was asked during lecture. 

Men and women have different body fat percentages , this contributes( not sure on specifics) to the different sexes to feel different temperatures.

I don't recall how the hormone thing worked, it was first year biology , 8 am ( I think) class.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: I'm a trans woman and after my E1 levels reached cis woman levels I got cold all the time and my showers got progressively hotter and hotter.

Hormones are whack yo
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Girlfriend is cold 100% of the time. Latches onto me to stay warm. Physically feels cold. 

Somehow turns into a nuclear reactor as soon as she touches a bed.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Women's core temperature tend to run higher than men's. So the same temp. water wouldn't feel as hot. 

Just a guess
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Your body tempature is only what it is in your butt and under your tongue. Apparently scientifically women have cold hands and legs and stuff..
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: The distribution of fat and muscle is different, and there are some other hormonal factors that cause temperature to vary throughout the day and month. What underlies that reason though, is evolution: 

"Brr... It's cold in here."

"I got you, baby."

Repeat for millions of generations.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Hey, as a guy I do this too. Just gradually turn up the temperature of the water. You won't feel a thing unless the temperature control jerks to one side as it gives more than it should do and you suddenly either freeze your arse off or have to dodge the lava stream coming out of the showerhead.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Absolutely zero smart input on my part, just wanted to let you know I laughed like crazy while commuting to your temperatures exceeding the melting point of steel  so true on so many levels
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: There is a fairly straightforward Heat Transfer explanation.  Women on average are smaller and weigh less than men, which means less Volume, and less Surface area.  However the factors of Volume and Surface Area don't scale at the same rate.  For simplicity sake, let's simplify people into Cubes, although the underlying math works for any shape.

Double the Volume of a cube (increasing it by 100%), and the surface area only grows by 2^2/3 or a 58% growth.  So in general, the bigger you are, the faster your volume grows relative to your surface area.  Or if it makes the math easier for you, double the sides of a cube, and the surface area grows by a factor of 4 (since each side grows by 2^2) and the volume grows by a factor of  8 (2^3).

Well, your heat transfer is governed by how much surface area you have, among other things, and how much heat you have to lose is governed by your volume, among other things.

So, the bigger you get, the more internal heat you have relative to your heat transfer, and the smaller you are, the more efficient your body is at transferring heat away.

TLDR: women, in general transfer a higher percentage of their internal heat away at any time because in general they are smaller than men and smaller things lose their heat quicker than bigger things.  If they want to solve the problem, they could grow big and fat and then they will be hot and sweaty any time the temperature approaches body temp.

I hope this help, if it was confusing, please feel free to ask followup questions.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: I didn't know that I wasn't alone on this topic. Maybe it has to do with body hair or something. But even if I had no hair I wouldn't shower at 1200
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: I always thought this was a myth, as a male who enjoys tremendously warm showers, I've always had to turn it up the heat after all my partners.

After reading a few more posts. It seems linked to poor circulation which I do have.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Water from showers start off warm when they come out of the shower head, but cool down as they fall through the air, so the water is cooler the lower you are. Since women are usually shorter than men, they like to have the water start off warmer when it comes out so it cools to a nicer temperature when the water gets to them. Kids are even shorter and need even warmer water to stay comfortable. If you want to try this out yourself, you can see the temperature difference between standing in the shower vs sitting in the shower and you'll notice the difference! Those iconic giant cooling towers in nuclear power plants work on the same principal, cooling water by having it fall a great height inside the cooling tower so that the water is cooler at the bottom. The steam is the warm water escaping.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: I think you may be generalizing; meaning, the basis for the statement of your question is false.    
    


My GF, always is wearing warm clothes,  even in summer to keep warm. And would seem to fit the standard stereotype, except she showers with cold water ( she says it is not cold, it is simply not heated).
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Women are generally more anemic or borderline anemic because of our uterus/periods. So we run cold. Plus as other have said more fat tissue.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Women come from a deeper level of hell and have had their souls tempered in the hottest fires.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Women tend to be smaller than men, and have less musculature. This means that we produce less body heat. We also have less skin area, which means that we lose less heat to the environment, but not so much that it compensates for producing less. This is because of the square-cube law, which says that if something doubles in height, but keeps the same proportions, its surface area will increase fourfold (2), but its volume will increase eight fold (2). This means that the volume to surface ratio will double.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: It's gotta be something to do with hormones. As a transgender woman, I am much more resistant to high temps after hormone therapy. Previously I used to use ac and fans even in the winter and hated high temps. Right now I had to stop my meds for a month brcause reasons and I actually feel like I'm in a microwave all the time again. So yeah, there's definitely a real thing there.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: According to CTRL-F, no one in this thread has mentioned testicles yet? Men's testicles are external to their bodies because they require lower than body temperatures to function properly. Seems like an obvious corollary that men should therefore be more comfortable in lower temperatures. Anything close to body temperature will impede their balls from storing piss.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Broad statement that is nearly opposite to how my girlfriend runs. She's always warm to touch, just below fever warmth to me, but she never sweats. Takes cool showers. She doesn't notice when I use too much hot water in a long shower.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Men and women should have the same average temperature. However, a lot depends on personal chemistry. My girlfriend is the warm one out of the two of us, but I'm told its because I don't have enough iron in my diet.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Actually, it all comes feom the heart.  Men are from hell, and that warmth naturally permeates their bodies.   ..but the body naturally seeks to moderate that temperature by releasing it through heavy activity and sweatimg.  Males with larger pieces of hell often have to do extreme amounts of work, exercise, and sweating, or the energy starts ro get released as evil, which is more energy dense.  This takes the form of collusion, oppression, coercion etc, and if not guarded against, will become the default method of releasing energy -- but the body naturally prefers release through simpler methods.

Women, on the other hand, are from the void dimension.  Although you might think that means they technically don't exist, they are really complex patterns of tendency toward nothingness.  They feed on extremes, because they need the energy gradient.  They reduce everything they interact with to the average energy level, but need extremes to sustain themselves, because it is the process of reduction that keeps them alive.  Physically, this manifests as extremely hot showers, often followed by ice cream, or in some cases sitting directly in front of a fan or AC while wet.  When their needs aren't met, they seek to incite and create extremes in their environment which they can then sustain themselves on.  ..like men, though, their bodies naturally trend toward 98.7 degrees (although there's some small variance in the baseline), and there's only so much their bodies can take.  The feeling that they are cold comes from you experiencing the process of your heat being reduced.  The woman is at a perfectly normal temperature, they are simply reducing your heat with coldness they have acquired elsewhere.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Not true! Yes, Im a sufferer of the cold hands/feet as my poor SO can attest. Hes been attacked by them innumerable times. 

However, his shower temp is close to that on the surface of the sun. He comes out of the shower daily looking as if he gave his entire body first degree burns. 

Many times I have showered after him and just pulled up the knob to turn it on and yelled and jumped out because it was too damn hot. 

Im a woman and I enjoy a mildly hot shower. Much like baby bear from Goldilocks.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: In the shower, I find as I get used to the temperature I tend to crank it up a bit more. So by the time I'm done with a shower, it is usually pretty hot!

I have a large, noisy family including two children that are 3 and 1. The shower is the ONE place in the house where I can hear nobody and nobody follows me. They're lucky I come out.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Kind of off subject but it just hit me a few days go that the saying "People with the coldest hands have the warmest hearts" exist because almost all women have cold hands. It's literally playing off the female caregiver. 

But on topic, women also have slower metabolic rate. So we don't produce as much heat as men who have a 23% (maybe it was 25% can't remember) higher rate.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Studies have been done on mammal male and female temperature preferences and they found that while females prefer warmer temps males prefer colder temps. Part of this is because females on average have higher body temps and do what's warm to males doesnt always feel warm to females. They also found that a reason males preferred colder temps was to be able to better regulate the temperature of their testicles.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Being cold is a relative thing. It appears that women on average have a higher body temperature, but we also may get cold at a higher temperature because of that. Which would also explain the hotter showers (although I couldn't find any research on shower temperatures being gendered), if women are trying to return to a higher temperature.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: This continues to baffle me. My girlfriend thrives in extremely hot showers. The same temperature feels like it's literally burning my skin. She often jokes about it, too, how she feels "cold" when we shower together and I turn the heat up just to where I can barely stand it.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Shot in the dark. Lower BMI or just less body fat in the furthermost extremities. Besides that I run well over normal temp, meaning I overheat/perspire easily, and I take showers at the same temp or hotter than my SOs usually
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: My "hot" shower feels lukewarm to my boyfriend and the water my boyfriend showers in is unbearably hot for me, it hurts my skin, so there you go.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Women are warm and affectionate by nature so they want to feel warmth and affection all the time. It's ultimately a good thing.
question: Men and Women have the same body temperature, right? Then why does it seem that on average women are always cold and shower at temperatures exceeding the melting point of galvanized steel?[removed] answer: Melting point of galvanized steel? Nah it's closer to the temperature required to melt Uru
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: so it slices, rather than chops. The angle blade makes it so that the blade slide across the neck, rather then just having a flat edge chop down.

If you have it just chop down, you stand a much better chance of just crushing the neck rather than having the head get cut off.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: People are telling you the answer... slicing v. chopping, shear force and pressure over area... but not really describing the difference. 

A human neck for example doesn't have a super tough skin, but there are tougher bits relative to other bits.  And the bits are often discrete, meaning if you succeed in cutting one bit, you can chalk it up as job done and move onto the next bit, one at a time.

Imagine you are cutting a tomato.  The skin of the fruit is somewhat harder for a knife blade to get through compared to the 'guts'.  Now if you take your knife and press **down** your blade will compress the soft 'guts' and you will increase the length of blade that encounters the skin.  Its like your blade is staying as sharp (or dull) while the skin is getting tougher!

But what if you take your knife and, like the famous guillotine blade, angle it to the direction of force/resistance?  You drastically lessen the amount of blade that can come into contact with the skin if it compresses.  Its, not perfect of course, but it does the best job of keeping more of the force directed on singular points.

Why aren't *all* blades like this?  Well they often are, but not always.  When you angle the blade you increase the surface area drastically.  And if you are cutting a super-duper sized neck, well then friction starts holding your blade back.

Imagine cheese.  Not particularly hard to cut (fart joke!).  But if you use a butchers knife it will seem difficult.  The cheese "sticks" to the big flat blade holding it back and making your job difficult.  This is why cheese cutters are often skinny little pieces of wire.  the wire isn't particularly sharp, it doesn't have to be.  Nor is it very strong, there are no vertebrae in a cheddar wheel.  But it has almost no surface area, so it can just slide right through!
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: It's so it slices through the neck quickly with one drop of the blade. There are several ancestors of the guillotine that have straight blades but it took several strikes to successfully remove the head
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Oh my god i can finally answer something.
Sorry for spellibg tho, chilean here.
The angle is made so the force with wich the blade fall off (F=mg) is applied on a shorter portion of the neck, so the distribiutive  force (force per length) id larger.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: It's called a "shearing angle" and is used in everything from woodworking  to cutting off peoples heads. 

It makes an automatic slicing action even though the blade is travelling in a straight line, if it was not angled it would function more like an axe, which would need a lot of blunt force behind it. It's kind of like how you have to pull and slice with a samurai sword rather than just hacking at things straight on.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Think of cutting a tomato.  Do you just push the knife straight down, or forward as you push down?  An angled blade accomplishes the same thing.

The goal wasn't really to splatter the head and blood all over the spectators.  That would be gross.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Because [it goes it goes it goes it goes it goes it goes it goes it goes](_URL_0_)
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: The very early models had a flat blade instead of angled blades. They changed this because people weren't dying or they would be in a lot of pain and then die. They went to a angled blade to be more humane.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Gonna attempt a literal ELI5

Okay, imagine you have a nail, and an apple. Push the pointy end into the apple. Pretty easy, right? Now try to push the flat end into the apple. That's a little harder! That's because it's a lot easier to push a tiny thing through something, than it is to push a bigger thing through something. See how the pointy end gets tiniest at the end? That's why!

It might look different, but the same idea happens with the blade. When the blade is flat, the whole thing touches at the same time and you need to push it all through at the same time, which is harder. But if it's angled, only a tiny bit is touching at once which makes it easier to go through, just like the nail in the apple.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: There is a myth that it was the King of France, Louis XVI himself, who upon being presented the new contraption by Dr. Guillotin, suggested that the blade be angled in order to better slice through the condemned one's neck. The video demonstrates the failure of the horizontal blade as well.

Here is an example from the movie, "La Rvolution franaise":
Captions in english available.

_URL_1_


edit: Horizontal blade explanation.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Think chopping vegetables. if you go at the vegetable with the blade straight you end up having to basically saw or chop harder but if you come at an angle it slides right through.  Our heads are vegetables.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: It gives a slicing motion making it easier to slice.

A straight edge would not be as effective in beheading.

Think of it this way, you can hold a knife on the blade side (or even hit your palm with it) without it cutting you. If how ever you were to run it across your hand (slicing motion), it would leave you bloody.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: The same reason you have feet instead of just little points, with greater surface area, comes a greater distribution of weight, so if the blade was straight across, it would all hit the beck at once, and the momentum of the blade would not be sufficient to overcome the all the resistance, and might not even sever the spinal column. When it is slanted, the full force of the blade will hit only a small portion of the neck at a time, ensuring it will cut the entire thing but sequentially.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: A flat head blade cuts once while an angled continues the cut as it gets towards the smaller thinner area if the blade
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Pressure = Force/ area. If there is a larger pressure, it is easier to cut off the heads. The angled blade means there is a smaller area touching the neck at any one time, the weight is still the same, so the force is the same. Therefore, the pressure is bigger.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Very [early models](_URL_2_) did not have angled blades.

[Bonus pic](_URL_3_).
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Try pushing a knife through a tomato, then try pushing it while pulling the knife backwards. Slicing  >  pushing.

Because the guillotine blade can go in only one direction (down/up), the angled blade makes sure it slices. If it wasn't angled, then it would push; if it was vertical, then it would slice; angled it does both.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: The angled blade allows for cutting a small part of the target at a time, thus reducing the force required.  A flat blade would require a much higher lift to accomplish the same job.  It's really a benefit of the physics of an inclined plane.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Originally, it wasn't angled and several chops were needed before chopping off the head of a person, until the blade was angled, needing only one slicing to cut off the head.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: That angle is called the sheer angle, it reduces the tonnage required to cut through an object.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: I will take this opportunity to say that criminals put to death in the USA should be done so by guillotine! 

It seems more humane, less likely to fail, less expensive, and better for all concerned than killing either by drugs or a firing squad. It could even be set-up on a timer so there is no executioner.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: When the blade is angled, it doesn't have to chop through the entire neck at once.  It slices from side to side.

The result is that as the blade hits the neck and slices, at any given time the weight is more concentrated on one part of the neck and not distributed evenly across it.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: is it true when a head is severed the person stays conscious for a few seconds after with the blood in the brain? Someone mentioned something like in the old days they'd get chopped off and they would still talk with their head in the basket?
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Take a ripe tomato and a knife, try to press down evenly on the tomato with it, you will notice you are just crushing the tomato. Now make a slight puncture along one side, and slide the blade across with the tip beneath the skin...
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: This is called a shear angle. The reason it's there is to reduce the amount of force necessary to slice through. Because the shearing action is distributed over a longer duration. A 5% shear angle can reduce the force required by 20%.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Its easier to slice than it is to cut, and therefore decreases the chances that it won't finish the job in one go. Rigging a guillotine up twice for the same victim would give them an painful and inhumane death.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Pressure =force/area. Force=pressure* area. A slanted blade reduces surface area in contact with persons neck which generates a larger force to make it cut more cleanly compared to a flat blade.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: No expert, but I think about how you cut meat with a chef's knife.  You don't chop, you slice.

I think some were straight, though.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: To add on to what everyone else is saying, it also minimizes surface contact area, which increases the force applied.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: It's easier to cut bread by pulling the knife across it rather than pushing the blade down on it.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Think about it when you are slicing vegetables at the kitchen, how do you hold the knife? You are starting your move holding the blade angled because you unconsciously know that it's the most effective way to "slice" or do a clean cut. 

All other top comments are explaining the physics very well, I will explain it with simpliest way possible. What do we need to penetrate a flat surface (let's say a wall)? A pointy thing (a nail for an example). So, when you are trying to cut something clean you want to penetrate it starting from one point and then cut the whole surface. Did you ever cut a watermelon? You need to stab it with the pointy end of your knife and then cut it, otherwise you would need to much force to **penetrate** it and even if you could penetrate it wouldn't be a **clean** cut.

The angled blade of Guillotine gives us that penetrating pointy end when it meets the neck and then does a clean cut without needing much force.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Blades work because they have a large amount of force concentrated in a very thin edge; most people understand this easily enough. BUT, a SLICING blade has an extra advantage over one that is simply pushed: friction. A large amount of friction (with moderate force) concentrated on a very thin edge create more energy than only force applied on that edge. Every time you make that edge thinner by half (AKA shaper blade) you double the amount of friction, which creates a compounding cutting ability the sharper a material's edge is.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: the area in contact with the neck that you want to cut at any given moment is smaller , meaning that the cut will be cleaner and the head comes straight off. 

fun fact: when guillotines were first employed , people were disappointed by how fast the execution was over , since unlike a noose , it was instant and there wasnt any squirming by the person sentenced to death
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Think about a pair of scissors. If instead of slowly squeezing the paper with two sharp edges it just lowered one edge down onto the other so the blades met flat, the 2 flat parts would require you to push through the whole piece of paper at once, where the current design you only need to cut a small portion at a time.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: An angled blade will also be pushed against the wall as it goes through the neck, which will push the blade back against the neck. If I am not mistaken, that means the angle increases the efficiency by about 1/cos(angle), which is about 15% at 30 degrees (like the picture). This is in addition to the slicing mentioned elsewhere. Not bad!
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Think of when you cut something with a knife. If you just press down it tends to squish the object, but if you move the blade while pressing down it slices.    
Since a guillotine blade only moves vertically, that lateral movement is created by the angle on the blade so it slices the neck rather than cleaving it.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: It has more edge for a given width of blade, optimized for cutting.  If your guillotine is 2 feet wide, a horizontal blade has two feet of edge.  An angled blade has way more edge, therefore more cutting power.

You also might be interested in the difference between slicing and push cutting, which are culinary terms.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: If you try to chop something straight horizontally, the force of the chop is spread throughout. 

Chop at an angle and the force is more fine tuned. Also allows room for the blade to pass. 

Basically the blade won't get stuck. 

Imagine having to get it done twice. :(
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: It's easier to cut a string than it is a rope. The angle lets it slice so it's only cutting a small surface with all the force rather than trying to chop the whole thing and having that same amount of force applied across a much larger area.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Have you ever cut a tomato with a knife? Have you noticed that if you slice it it makes a nice cut with hardly any mess, whereas if you try to chop it you'll most likely end up getting tomato everywhere.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Pounds per square inch decreases if you keep force constant and decline surface area then you have a higher force. 

When you use a knife you're not cutting something. You're just pushing on a very small part with proportionally large force.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: In order to increase the probability of the blade going all the way through you need to angle it to reduce the surface area of the cutting edge and concentrate the force of the blade to a smaller area.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Also, there is a lot more cutting area. Kind of like the curved swords of the Persians. The curved sword blade also sliced/cut instead of hacked. Much more deadly in battle.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Ely5: same reason as when you slice a tomato you run the edge up the tomato, vs. Just pushing down with the blade of the knife
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: It adds friction to the cut. To cut a rope would you slam down on it, or slash at it?
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: A curved blade should also work, but it would probably be more difficult and expensive to manufacture.
question: Why a Guillotine's blade is always angled?Just like in this Photo [HERE](_URL_0_). answer: Same reason you slice through your steak instead of pushing your knife straight down through it.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: Go hiking for several miles. Blisters and hotspots are a common injury. Many native people who walk barefoot, and long distance walkers develop a thick layer of hard dead skin on their feet to protect themselves.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: Simply being in contact isn't enough to cause a pressure sore. The force of the pressure on the skin is a much larger factor in determining whether or not a sore develops.

Pressure sores typically form over bony prominences in your body (think of your knuckles or tailbone) and are caused by prolonged periods of pressure on the skin. For example, the act of sitting places you at risk of developing a pressure sore on your tush due to the weight of your upper body pressing down on the skin and reducing the blood flow to the skin and tissue, leading to tissue damage or death (depending on the weight and the length of time). To increase the likelihood of developing a sore, you could increase the weight (force) pressing down, increase the time, or decrease the surface area supporting the weight.

If you were to press your toes together tightly for a great length of time, then they might be a small risk of developing a pressure sore, but even then the amount of force (in this case, weight) that would be pressing on the skin is probably unlikely to do any damage.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: What about the inside of our butt cracks?
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: They aren't in constant contact unless you've bound them together, your toes move quite a bit even inside shoes and socks
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: All skin is not created equally!

Skin on areas of high contact (soles, palms, digits) is called thick skin and it is a bit different than skin elsewhere on our body.

All thick skin is "keratinized' which means that in addition to the normal other skin layers, it has an a large outermost layer of dead skin cells.  

These cells all hooked together during their growth, then died and remain as the outermost layer of skin.  They're literally dead so they have no blood supply and no nerve supply and thus are pretty resistant to pain and prevent bleeding from occurring when there is friction on their surfaces.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: Chafing can and does happen to people. 

Also skin in those areas usually heals quickly or is smother in order to reduce friction.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: I'm in decent shape but I get rashes in my pits from everything even just driving whether I wear deodorant or not like wtf
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: The real question is why our dicks don't get blisters.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: The skin in that area is constantly being replenished via epitheliazation. Also when you are younger and healthy the skin is held together with strong connective tissue. Elderly people are a different story, their skin is usually thinner and does not have as much water as a younger person. This causes the skin to replenish slower, and can become injured simply by putting pressure on the area.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: In the past before we wore shoes our toes were splayed out. Not all scrunched together like they are now. 

This actually really bothers me and I hate how my toes look all molded together.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: I just looked at my foot to see if my toes are touching each other!!
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: There are 5 possible layers of the epidermis- most outer layer of the skin. These are the stratum corneum, lucidum, granulosum, spinosum and basale. The fourth layer (stratum lucidum) is only found on the soles of your feet and the palms of your hands, it is composed of dead kerinocytes and allows for the extra contact
-med student
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: Wait... im the only one who gets fucked up between the toes after a lot of walking?
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: They are making contact but do not have pressure forcing them together. If they do, it's generally not for an incredibly long time. In order to get a contact sore similar to a bed sore, you'd need a ton of pressure smushing them together for an extended period of time (like days to weeks) and that would cut off the blood supply to the skin in that area and cause the skin die from the lack of oxygen that is found in the blood and it would break down, which would create a sore. There's also not much of them rubbing against each other unless you run a lot or are regularly on your feet for hours in shoes that don't fit correctly.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: I would like to know why is it when I go to the beach and play in the sand and water, I get chaffed around my scrotum and thighs? It hurts really bad, is it from the sand, salt and grit? Or is it something different?
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: Maybe not contact sores, but the parts that are always touching are at risk for fungal infections!! (Molds/yeasts love sweaty creases and confined areas!)

Like Athlete's Foot, Candida infection in the fat creases especially in diabetics, jock itch (Tinea cruris), etc...
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: I sometimes get them between my pinky toe and the one next it, and the one next it and its mate as well.  This most often results from not changing shoes/socks after sweating a lot or getting feet wet.  But sometimes it is just from having to wear my dress shoes several days in a row, which don't breath as well as sneakers that I usually wear.  I actually make a habit of trying to pull my pinky toes away to make a "gap" just because they are so buried into the next to normally.
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: Yeah I get that by walking in heels.. :(  doesn't look very feminine when I take my shoes off haha
question: why don't the parts of our skin that are always touching, like our toes, get contact sores? answer: You obviously don't work very hard/get very physical.
question: Lottery earnings, how does the IRS/government look and treat them?[removed] answer: All winning are treated as income. Winning a jackpot just puts in you in the top tax bracket for that year which means you are going to pay about 50% of it in taxes. This is for the USA only, most other countries don't treat winning as income so you keep what you win everywhere else. 

The food stamp program is it's own program and has it's own rules about who is eligible. While they would consider your winnings as income, they probably don't see it as regular income. You made zero last year, you are going to make zero next year, this year is just a blip where you made money but because of expected earning next year, it doesn't disqualify you from benefits this year. 

Most likely rules to encourage people to move up and earn more without fear of being worse off for making a little more money or winning a prize and loosing more in benefits than what they earned.

The rules probably never considered a mega jackpot winner, let alone one that would continue to apply for benefits even though they are now a millionaire.
question: Lottery earnings, how does the IRS/government look and treat them?[removed] answer: lotto winnings are gambling winnings, taxed as ordinary income,  but the food stamp system seems to have some holes that do not consider net worth, just income.  Or perhaps they just dont monitor it well.

They were trying to update the law for food stamps in michigan to cross check recipients with lotto winners.  Seems an oddly narrow fix, not sure if it ended up passing anyway.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: I can't see any reason not to give it a try.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: Yes! Mexico (was it mexico?) did this and was very successful. They aired radio ads during soccer matches convincing rebels to come home for Christmas. It was successful and some rebels returned home (they were hiding in the bush). I can't seem to find it, but I know I've had multiple professors lecture on it because it is the classic "marketers aren't evil" example.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: Thats what we call propaganda. Most countries don't like other countries using propaganda in them.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: Yes, but it's unlikely to work as most "terrorists" are motivated by fundamentalist religious interpretations and, as such, are not even [willing to consider the possibility that they're wrong.](_URL_0_)
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: This is somehow simultaneously absurdly hilarious and horrifically evil, more for what it says about marketing and propaganda than creative ways to wage war.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: Marketers do their magic by working on a population that has purchasing power and a cultural context they can identify with and manipulate. Most  terrorists on the other hands are products of a combination of lack of opportunities, oppression and religious exploitation (I am obviously oversimplifying). You want to convince them they are wrong? No, you can't. By that time, it's already too late. But if you can create jobs, offer free education and raise people out of poverty and perhaps avoid dropping bombs regularly on them, there's a better chance that they won't be convinced by a recruiter that they should leave their satisfying life to go blow themselves up.

That said, the US has tried to do this by funding local radio in the middle east and offering counterviews to the "death to the infidel yankees" tone but clearly, it hasn't worked.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: We do. The marketing is delivered in the form of bombs. BACK TO BACK WORLD WAR CHAMPS, BABY.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: My answer to this is........ WE ARE doing it.

Why do you think the media constantly talks about this in a negative manner. Do you honestly thing terrorists "hate freedom". Of course not. They just have different beliefs that happen to be very different from ours. Unfortunately they are also psycopathic murderers. But the point I'm trying to make is this. The media's coverage has been guided all along against ISIS. And in essence the point is to discourage people from joining. Imagine if every poor person in America suddenly decided to join ISIS. The news agency uses horrific images of Americans getting their heads cut off to prevent that from happening.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: The main reason I can see that this would have trouble working is that you need to get your advertisements to the terrorists, and you have to make them have an effective message.  And you have to counter indoctrination and peer pressure.

This kind of advertising would be more in line with political advertising than with product advertisement- and if you follow politics much, you know how hit or miss such advertising can be.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: We already do. A recent episode of John Oliver's show on HBO covered one such masterful piece of marketing in which the ~~DoD~~ State Department sarcastically encouraged radical muslims to blow up mosques and etc... No, seriously. You paid for it (assuming you're an American). We do it. 

Edit : Here's the Reddit thread about it - _URL_1_
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: This is a huge problem in first world countries: you guys actually think the vast majority of terrorists WANT to be terrorists. No, they don't. As you pointed out, these people are being oppressed, and the only way they can stop this oppression is through terrorism for them.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: Advertising has diminishing returns.  It's like how there are still smokers even though there are tons of ad campaigns.  Everyone already knows smoking is dangerous, but you can't convince everyone.  Terrorists probably already know everything that there is to tell them.  They don't care.
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: Let me give you one real reason that so far no one seems to have hit on...where is the profit from this?
question: Could we spend money on marketing to convince terrorists that they are wrong? answer: Yes, and we've been doing it for some time. You just don't hear about it when it works. 

_URL_2_
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: I worked on a window-washing robot that cleaned acres of rooftops over a huge commercial greenhouse.

Worked great, except when it didn't, and would either break down completely or just get lost and start climbing the wrong parts of the structure.  Then repair techs and manual window washers still have to be employed.

I think this ends up being a cost/benefit problem where the reliability of our robots and price of implementation isn't quite at the point where it makes this commercially viable for skyscrapers.

For what it's worth, I think the Twin Towers actually used a washer robot on the upper floors to limited success.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: Try googling "automatic skyscraper window cleaner" and you'll see that i is doable for a machine. If the building isn't flat, like lets say the london egg for example, machines would be much harder to implement. Most probable reason they still do it is that it isn't that dangerous, as these people are usually trained alpinists and that it is cheaper to hire them once or twice a year than developing and building a custom mechanical system.   
EDIT: the climbing specialists was a remarkt for those difficult buildings such as the top of the gherkin and the glass ceiling of my local parlement, where i got this information. ofc you don't need to be trained as much when you just sit in a box pushing a button to go up and down.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: First of all, a lot of modern skyscrapers are designed very differently. There can be different angles, different shaped windows, and unflat surfaces. It would cost a lot of money to custom engineer and build a window cleaning system for a single building. It's a lot more cost effective to just hire some people to do it once or twice a year.

If I remember correctly the original World Trade Center had some window cleaning robots.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: I was a [high-rise window washer](_URL_0_) in Baltimore In the 90's (yeah, I'm as old as your mom).  We didn't "just sit in a box pushing a button to go up and down," but rather rappelled on two ropes down from the roof and washed as we descended.  A machine could do it, but probably not as fast.  We would set our ropes in between two or four windows and pendulum to reach the glass on either side as we dropped, using a suction cup to stay put in front of the glass once we swung out.  One man could wash a row of four windows from roof to ground in about 30 minutes (depending on wind and other factors). A crew of five men could wash a forty story building in one or two days. If a machine were to cover that much area it would have to be huge, and probably require a few workers to run it.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: former window washer here - as stated before, even if you got a machine to do it effectively somehow, there would still be too many cons to get rid of window washers entirely.

there is a surprising amount of r & d into window washing tech. when i left the industry, they were currently trying to create these sort of scrubber wands, that would utilize purified water or something, so that the water used would not have to be squeegeed off because it would dry so cleanly and evenly.

trust me, if they could use robots and not have to employ crack head morons to do the job, they would do it in a second.

also while i'm on the subject - you know the secret ingredient window washers use in their buckets?

dawn and water. that's it. 

for tough stuff we used scrapers, as well as oven cleaner and fine steel wool, believe it or not
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: Didn't the World Trade Center have window washing robots?
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: They should have done kind of roomba type of robot that just roams around cleaning windows constantly. That would be rad.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: I used to clean high rise windows and I can tell you that the last thing building engineers consider is how to clean the windows after construction. Some buildings have 4 story atriums with angled glass roofs that in order to clean the inside require some crazy scaffolding to access. Some buildings are shaped in a way that robots can and do clean the windows, such as the Peachtree Plaza in downtown Atlanta. It is cylinder shaped and has only glass, so no ledges or bumps to deal with. The robot that cleans it just glides along the outside surface. That being said, even on this optimal building design for robot use, it still doesnt do a great job, and breaks down a lot.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: There are automatic machines that clean the windows of towers ([example]
(_URL_1_)). The downside is that they don't deal well with irregular surfaces, plus they can't check how well they are cleaning. Humans can clean efficiently and are cheap(ish) compared to an autonomous robot.

You say it is "super dangerous" but actually the accident rate for window cleaners is small.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: Couldn't they make the windows hinged so that each office could wash their own windows risk free?
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: I work as an industrial abseiling window cleaner. If the roof isn't flat or easily accessible, it makes it difficult to use robots and other automated methods of window cleaning. There is also the factor of cleaning stubborn dirt off and detailing which can't be done using automated methods. 
My job is perceived as high risk because of the height factor, but it's actually really safe because we use 2 ropes with 2 separate safety devices and 2 anchor points on the roof rated to at least 12Kn (roughly 1.2 tonnes) there are plenty of fail safes in place.  it's very rare to hear of an abseiler dying or being seriously injured on the job, but when they do it's usually from  someone doing something incredibly stupid or not being properly trained.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: There are people who really want that job. You don't have to hardly pay anything. They will do it practically free just for the chance to rappel down the building.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: Previous professional window cleaner here, though I haven't done skyscrapers. Have since returned to education. Primary focus was on residential/small business. I've asked myself this exact question many times over. There's LOTS of time to think while doing this job.

Here's my present conclusion: It's easier to hire someone else to do the job than to try something new.

When it comes to property management and cleaning, people just want to get it done and hire it out to others. This is then hired out to people who don't know a thing about automation and have simply been doing what they've been taught by the last guy. This really does leave a HUGE market opening for window cleaning robots. 

Can you figure out how to produce these robots? Well, then, GET BUILDING, 'cause I'll be competing with you soon enough as I move forward with my own education.

Also, the first window cleaning robot that I am aware of was recently released for residential windows. They are still far from perfect and I'm rather unimpressed. Sky scrapers should be MUCH easier to automate. Here's a review:
_URL_2_

Protip for cleaning windows; get your pro supplies here:
_URL_3_
Also, every window cleaner I know uses dish soap in hot water. We laugh at Windex.

Also, a request to any architects reading... please consider building walkable ledges under multistory windows facing steep slopes. This will save your homeowners LOTS in window cleaning fees and makes the job so much safer. Oh, the dreaded four story ladder climb up to that teeny tiny window that is in direct sunlight while the ladder feet are on an insane mountain slope. I sometimes wonder if I'm actually alive or in a coma dream from a fall. Been staring at my reflection in the glass too long.
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: We need a giant windshield washer and just tell people in the top corners to use lamps for light
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: Rather than a machine to automate the task, I think the big innovation will be a special coating on the window or a new material compound that repels dirt and water. Something [like this](_URL_4_) but permanent
question: Why are skyscraper windows still washed by hand?It's super dangerous- It can't be that hard for a machine to do it. answer: [The windows of both towers of the original World Trade Center were cleaned by a robot.](_URL_6_) and the [video](_URL_5_) regarding its operation is noted
question: How did the first single-celled organisms on Earth come about? answer: University Biology student here. 

The correct answer is: No one knows, and there is no real scientific evidence to help us understand why. 

NOW there are really good theories, as mentioned below, like abiogenesis. 
BUT it's not the like theory of evolution. (one of the most solidly 'proven' theories out there. ) There are literally mountains of evidence for evolution. The evidence for abiogenesis is, well, hypothetical at best in my humble opinion. 

I do believe it, but more than likely, all life on this planet was the result of the evolution of some type of [self replicating amino acid,](_URL_0_)after which evolving life would be a simple matter of time and good environmental conditions.
question: How did the first single-celled organisms on Earth come about? answer: you might want to [/r/askscience](/r/askscience) this. Given by some of the answers, this topic might be a little too thick for ELI5.
question: How did the first single-celled organisms on Earth come about? answer: I can lead you in the right direction if there are no other responses.

[Abiogenesis](_URL_1_)


One theory is that there was a primordial soup of necessary components which in the right temperatures began combining to form larger components (amino acids, chemicals).  I really don't know much about it but there are several theories, the one of which I have heard most about I posted a link to above.
question: How did the first single-celled organisms on Earth come about? answer: we just did this in my GCSE science class, so i'm no degree student! still, i'll give it my best shot.
the early atmosphere were gases like methane, ammoia, water vapour etc. one theory is that lightning was a starter source of energy and reacted these to make amino acids. amino acids make proteins, which are basically the building blocks of life, and from them organisms developed.
question: How did the first single-celled organisms on Earth come about? answer: Good question. I've been using eli5 to educate my daughter. hope someone gives a good answer (comment before reading thread)
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams wasn't fired.  He was suspended for 6 months. 

It's also worth noting that Williams and O'Reilly work for different networks and are involved in completely separate controversies.  Furthermore, Williams is an anchor on a national news program, while O'Reilly hosts an opinion-based show.  The two controversies are being handled by different organizations, so there's no requirement that their punishments must be similar.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: You're also forgetting one is a commentator and the other one a news reporter.  Very different gigs. Very different standards.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams is a news reporter - someone trusted for reporting facts.

Bill O'Reilly is a news analyst and commentator - he takes the stories that Brian Williams might report and explains what they mean in a way that's relevant to the audience of his show.

News reporters are expected to hold a very very high ethical standard - analysts less so.

Additionally, Williams said something like "I was shot down" when he was not shot down.  O'Reilly said something like "I've seen combat and what terrorists can do" which, if taken literally, means he physically witnessed this with his eyes but COULD BE just a blanket statement for things he was aware of.

For example, I can say that I 'lived through 9/11' - even though I wasn't in New York and I was not a victim or even affected directly by it.  I was still a part of the experience of America at the time, though, and it is very memorable and real to me.  Is my statement a lie?  That's for you to decide, I guess.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams didn't lie once, he lied about one thing for **years**. Well, one thing that we know of.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: The appeal of each is based on different things:

- Brian Williams' persona *was* as a steady, trustworthy newsman, giving it to you straight. Telling whoppers, especially divisive ones, is a real blow to his appeal.

- Bill O'Reilly's appeal is as an aggressive hot head who bashes and batters the opposition. His whoppers don't help him, but they don't strike at the heart of his appeal either.

The networks pay these guys to get ratings. Losing credibility really hurts Brian Williams' ability to do his job, but it doesn't affect Bill O'Reilly much.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams told a definite, objective lie.  Bill O'Reilly made statements that could easily be misconstrued.

Imagine you're writing a resume.  What Brian Williams was is equivalent to saying that he had a medical degree when he didn't.  What Bill O'Reilly did was the equivalent of saying he had 'managerial experience' because he was a shift supervisor at McDonald's.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: It always irks me that people so often don't recognize that O'Reilly and Hannity are opinion shows.  They're allowed to have their staunch right-wing opinions because their entire shows revolve around what their particular opinion is about current events.  They have no real obligation to hold themselves up to journalistic ethics as they're not journalists.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams is a journalist.

Bill O'Reilly is an entertainer.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: As others have pointed out, Williams wasn't fired, just suspended.

They have different jobs.  Williams is a news anchor and O'Reilly is a pundit.  News anchors are held to different standards than commentators.

O'Reilly is also quite popular, and removing him from his time slot would likely result in a significant dip in ratings.  Brian Williams is far less important to the show he hosts.

Also keep in mind that most of Brian Williams untruths were exposed naturally, while Bill O'Reilly's untruths were exposed largely as the result of [45 hostile researchers working full-time to examine everything he's ever said](_URL_0_).  O'Reilly looks like he's told some whoppers, but I'm guessing nobody that does five hours of political commentary a week looks good when 45 researchers are working full-time to discredit everything they've ever said.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Because they are employed by different networks and one network has an audience who is notorious for a complete lack of interest in the truth or facts.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Nice "I hate Fox News" circle jerk going on here. But the fact remains that Williams got called out by the actual military pilot who flew him on the date in question who said his incident was entirely fabricated. O'Reilly got "called out" by a known extreme left wing magazine, and then had several third party respected journalists back him up saying, "Eh, did he use language to make it sound as dramatic as possible? Yeah, but he didn't make the whole thing up, it basically happened as described."

If anything continued coverage only makes O'Reilly look like a legit martyr since the two incidents are not really comprable, but moreover MoJo sold it's status as a leftist but serious mag to try and hit piece O'Reilly, and now looks like a petty junior varsity rag because they didn't fact check with third parties before running with their story just for the sake of trying to get Bill. No one is going to back Williams the same way because he lied to combat troops about combat and was called out by combat vets. No where near the same thing as spinning a story to sound more exciting than it really was and getting "called out" by a political rival.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Unrelated, but still relevant: a great book to read about memory confabulation (which is what likely happened in both of these cases) is called, "Mistakes Were Made, But Not By Me" written by Carol Tavris and Elliot Aronson. 

We think of our memories as like a movie, as a perfect record of every moment. In reality, our memories work like a mosaic where we have a few pieces then fill in the rest with things we hear, see on television, read about, etc.  This makes our memories very susceptible to error and misalignment. We remember things as happening to us even when they did not. At the same time, we fail to remember things that *did* happen to us.  We might call these exaggerations or lies, but we all unintentionally do this in one way or another--it's how our brains work. 

This really doesn't answer OPs question, but it does help to gain some understanding of *why* two journalists might have this sort of thing happen.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: That a news anchor like Brian Williams and op-ed tv show host like Bill O'Reilly get confused as the same things speaks to a much larger issues with critical thinking and journalism in America and elsewhere.

It's like when Jon Stewart and the Daily Show say they're "fake news". Well, yes, they're "fake" news. But, they're a REAL op-ed.

Both O'Reilly and Stewart constantly take advantage of audience ignorance between news *reporting* and news *commentary* and *opinion*.

And certain sheep in society eat it up and spew their opinionated rhetoric back as if it were fact. It's not. Not it most cases.

Anyway, that's my rant.

The reason Brian Williams and Bill O'Reilly were treated different was because they're two entirely different people with two entirely different jobs.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Another important distinction. O'Reilly's mishaps were from the the 70s and 80s, which gives significantly more plausibility to him misspeaking. 

The "FoxNews is dumb" circle jerk is seriously the most pathetic shit I have ever seen. You dim wits are perpetuating a myth based on your incredible ignorance. I am not saying FoxNews is not sensationalist or sometimes inaccurate. However, it is on par with MSNBC, which is its competitor on the other end of the spectrum. Stop being fucking pawns just because you hate conservatives. You're seriously embarrassing yourselves. Fucking sad.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Bill O'Reilly didn't lie, for one.  At best it's misconstrued.  There's a reason major stations aren't harping on BIll.

Stop watching so much Reddit.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Because the internet would much rather make excuses for other people and hound the hell out of people they believe to be 100% truthful. If I had to guess, I would say that the people calling for Williams' head never watched his show. Yet the same people would probably look the other way if Jon Stewart had some terrible legal troubles. I love Williams and I hate that people are so ready to throw him out. It should go without saying that I really enjoy Stewart too.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: The real answer: Liberals decide anything that doesn't match their worldview has to be a lie, and they're unable to differentiate fact and opinion.  Therefore, it follows that all opinions with which they disagree must be lies!
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: O'Reilly shares his opinion, ignorant as it may be.

Williams lies under the pretense that he is presenting facts.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: It's news vs opinion. Brian Williams is a new anchor while Bill O'Reilly is a host for an opinion program. While we'd like to think people wouldn't lie on opinion pieces, the fact of the matter is it's an opinion. On the other hand, if you're reporting the news and lie, that could have serious implication for public safety and the reliability of the entire network.

Also it should be noted their are allegation against O'Reilly but nothing has yet been proven/decided. So even if the were to receive equal punishment, it shouldn't happen until it's proven.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: O'Reilly is still on for the same reason that every anchor on Fox News and MSNBC, especially Rachel Maddow, is still there. It is an opinion based news channel that makes no apologies for it being that way. 

Brian Williams wasn't fired, but close to. He damaged the reputation of a channel that isn't supposed to be opinion and bias based.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: People already know O'Reilly lies (or at least has extreme opinions). No, Fox News isn't "built on lies" as other people say, but Bill O'Reilly is more of a commentator, thus does not always tell the "truth". It's most of the time just his opinions. Brian Williams really just reads the news and rarely interjects his own specific personal opinion.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: This questions was asked last week and here was the top answer
Bill's show is presented as an opinion show, Williams' show is presented as the nightly news, so when one is caught in a lie, which one do you think gets in more trouble based on the type of show it is presented as?
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian did something his employers didn't want him to do, Bill does what his employers want him to do.

Here in america it's about who's holding the money, not about "right or wrong".
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Because his job isn't to be a journalist or a news presenter.  He's a host.  His show is entertainment and opinion.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Left is for liberals, rights are for conservatives...Brian is considered a lefty
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams: "so like no Shit, I was there getting shot at"
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams supposedly CHOSE his six month hiatus, or if he didn't thats how they originally released the story. Its supposed to be an act of contrition, he supposedly understands his mistake and wont be an anchor while people don't trust him. O'Reilly on the other hand is sticking to his guns, saying he never lied, and anything that seems like I lie is just a misunderstanding. Hence it wouldn't make sense for him to take time off, as that would be admitting guilt.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: This is a dead horse now, but O Reilly does a talk show of sorts. They do not open saying here's "here's tonight's news with Bill o Reilly." they DO say "here's tonight's news with Brian Williams" or something to that effect. We know the difference between a news show and an opinion show, even though the opinion show is on a "news" network. We expect our news to be accurate. Opinions, not so much.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Dan Rather is a better comparison/case.

Brian Williams knowingly miselad. Rather was duped and didnt fact check. and was 100x the journalist that Brian Williams is.

The thing is, Williams 'knowingly mislead' in terms of just exaggerating a story for a chuckle on a late night show. God, Im glad that Ive never embelished anything before!
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams is a news anchor. Bill O'Reilly is a political commentator. Bill O'Reilly's bloviating is not frowned upon by his own network because it boosts his ratings and furthers their agenda. 

It is worth noting that most Fox News viewers do not make such a distinction, and likely don't realize there is one.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: In a word "$".

Mr. Willliams has the potential to dismantle the credibility and so the income of his network.

Mr. O'Reilly is in a different space where the audience is perhaps too centered on more extreme thinking and so losing him would cost money.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams is a news anchor that is supposed to be unbiased (think AP).

Bill O'Reilly is a conservative that is on a show where personal opinions are totally relevant to the production.

The comparison is the problem.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: If Obama lies constantly and still is the president, tell me why Hillary is still considered a contender for the presidency?

See, it's easy to post a stupid trollish question in the guise of a 5 year old....
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: O'Reilly is sort of a mascot.  I don't think he was ever meant to be taken seriously... on Fox "News" which I also am not sure is supposed to ever be taken seriously (although regrettably, many do).
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Bill O reilly is a entertainer, he is not a reporter.   He is a reporter in the sense a blogger is.  They rehash stuff to be what they want it to be not what is actual reporting.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Brian Williams wasn't fired for lying, he was fired for getting caught.  You can't blast Fox as being Faux news if you continue to employ a known liar yourself.

Personally, they are all equal to me.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: He wasn't fired, it wasn't just one lie... And this is the same network that has lied many times before, but somehow is supposed to be reputable. They've even staged car explosions to hurt an automaker.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: basically because fox news is based on reporting news and information as they want it reported without regard for accuracy or truthfulness so bill oreilly's fantasy based stories fit right in with the networks philosophy
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: I believe this was summed up best by Stephen Colbert.
When asked who his favorite conservative comedian was, he said Bill O'Reilly. Funny because uncomfortably true.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: A corollary: Why is there a huge outcry for conservative blood whenever some mush-brained liberal gets caught doing something wrong?
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Because Fox News reports nothing but lies. They actually fire people that tell the truth.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Up voter has a good non biased explanation but seriously, what does O'Reilly lie about?
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Because Bill O'Reilly is opinion based. Brian Williams was a "real" journalist.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Because O'Reily hasn't lied, and has been vetted by multiple sources.
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: * Brian Williams - journalist
* Bill O'Reilly - Entertainer/Opinion show
question: If Brian Williams lies once and gets fired, Why is someone like Bill O'Reilly still on the air? answer: Bill O'Reilly is more like Stephen Colbert than  Brian Williams
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Old stone bridges that are still standing probably had their footings build on solid rock or very stable earth. By contrast, your driveway was poured onto earth that moved or eroded under it. 

Fortunately, cracked driveways are still safe to use, unlike cracked bridges.

Edit:typo
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I'm actually a concrete inspector with a history degree. This might be the only question ever on reddit that I am qualified to answer in authority. Yay!

 Before you build a bridge you have to make sure the soil under it can bear the weight, the soil has to be very compact and stable. They had ways of doing this similar to a [proctor test](_URL_1_) and a [sand cone test](_URL_0_)The ancient Romans being the best civil engineers that history would see for centuries learned it the hard way. This is before science so it was just an ongoing record of learning from past mistakes with knowledge handed down to the next generation. They only built with the best plans, with the best material available. Earthquakes are a big problem in Italy so you have to "over build" often. That means make something much stronger than necessary every step of the way so that when it's finished it's going to stick around. 

They also made sure to pick the best spot for their bridges and would sometimes dig and dig and dig to make sure that if there is bed rock, they'll hit it.

Also, you have to remember that after thousands of years all of the ones who couldn't survive the test of time fell apart. What you're seeing is the ones who could and did.

What you are seeing in your driveway is the cheapest cement on discount at Home depot, poured by the cheapest guys a crooked sub contractor tricked into working in terrible conditions regardless of the untested soil.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Because they are two totally different things with almost nothing in common. If you built a Roman style arched bridge today it too would last forever.

Lemme elaborate: Your driveway has to flex like a big long beam, the bridge is an arch. All of the weight there is going straight down into the rocks of the arch legs. Concrete can't bend very well. Rocks are really good at just holding up weight. Your driveway is all concrete that cracks (except for the aggregate, but let's move along), the the arch legs of those bridges are big hunks of rock that don't crack. Your driveway has rebar. The bridge doesn't. Your driveway is sitting on top of the soil, which moves every year as the ground freezes and thaws. Or as water erodes it. Or about a thousand other things that can undermine what your driveway is sitting on. The legs of those Roman bridges go down to bedrock and don't move.

All of these things cause your driveway to crack and the bridge to not.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: A lot of Roman stuff still standing has been maintained and periodically fixed.  The Colosseum for example has new parts that keep it from further damage.  However, the Colosseum was actually built with iron supports originally to keep it from falling down.  After the empire collapsed, people removed the iron to sell for scrap.  It would be in a lot better shape now if people didn't use it for parts.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Concrete in driveways is vulnerable to a number of attacks:

1. Concrete shrinks when it cures, resulting in cracks. These may be large or barely visible, but they all let water in. When the water freezes it expands and causes considerable damage to the concrete. This happens all through winter.

2. This can be compounded if there is reinforcement, as de-icing salts accelerate corrosion. When steel corrodes it expands and cracks concrete.

3. Ground heave, from frost, can lead to uneven expansion of soil beneath the slab which causes/opens cracks.

4. Possible poor workmanship - bad concrete mix, bad installation, poor compaction of subgrade, bad design (too thin), improper curing and the like will also greatly reduce the longevity of your slab.

Now - for the Romans - you're mostly looking at stone, which is MUCH less susceptible to weathering and is not full of metal bars that'll expand if they corrode. Any mortar in the bridges is a potential weak point, but one that can be compensated with some maintenance. The bridges are also arch bridges with a very high arch - the stones all basically hold themselves together under the force of gravity as they are shaped together (shallow arch bridges are a little more vulnerable).

Also - the roman bridges we see today aren't all the bridges they built - plenty of Roman structures have fallen to pieces over the millennia. What we see today are mostly the best and most durable examples of Roman architecture. Any shoddy workmanship done by the Romans is long gone.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I remember reading that Roman concrete was actually a substantially different formula than the concrete in use today and that theirs was stronger due to use of volcanic ash.

_URL_2_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: There are a lot of correct answers but one thing that is missing is that nobody seems to mention is that not every bridge and structure built by Romans are still standing. What you see after 2000 years are only the strongest ones while the shoddy ones that only lasted 20 years are long forgotten. In 2000 years there will undoubtedly be some driveways around and the future people will marvel at their longevity but your driveway will likely have been long forgotten.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Romans used concrete admixture that was composed of lime and another volcanic material called pozzalana (sp?). These materials are much more resistance to salt, which is the main culprit for the deterioration of modern day concrete. Romans did not use steel reinforcment either, which will accelerate deterioration of the concrete if it comes into contact with salt water. Water causes oxidation of iron creating rust, while salt accelerates that process. The rust increases the volume of the steel, creating a large force, which then results in the concrete (which is kind of like, glued together with a binder) to deteriorate because the tension resistance of the concrete is not strong. 

I assume that your concrete driveway has some sort of welded wire mesh (fabric), and with enough rain, water, and salt, the concrete deteriorates faster over time - espcially with continual use. 

Source: Structural Engineer + Forensic Repair and Restoration Experience

 & nbsp;

TLDR: Romans used concrete with different stuff. Also most of the structures that are still standing do not have embedded steel reinforcement, which causes deterioration in concrete. Modern structures use steel reinforcment, and different admixture for concrete (cheapest method is best method) which deteriorate faster.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: If anyone wants to interpret this further:

[Roman road structure](_URL_4_)

[Typical modern road structure](_URL_3_)
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Civil Engineer here:

One thing that I don't see mentioned is the engineering behind the structure.  The Romans didn't have finite element analysis and as such over designed their structures.  Structures now are designed to be more efficient which means that just enough steel is used to maintain a comfortable factor of safety.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: One word, over-engineering. Although modern constructions takes a shitload of safety factors into account theyre only made as strong as they have to be to be considered safe. back in the roman days construction was waay less precise so they just built it the way their limited engineering knowledge and materials allowed them to. If we were to build our infrastructure to those standards there would be probably like 10 times less of it, not mentioning the immense amount of energy it requires in compare to with modern buildings. And yeah you can still build long lasting things they just tend to be on the more expensive side of things.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: You forgot to put in expansion joint and/or control joints.  Concrete always cracks but you can decide where and how.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: It's the same reason your house needs maintenance, but thousand-year old castles are still standing. It's all in what you're willing and able to spend and do.

Perhaps ironically, the biggest reason that many ancient Roman constructions are still standing is that ancient Roman engineers weren't as good as modern ones -- but they *knew* it. What they did was *over*engineer those structures, to make up for what they knew they didn't know about how to build things like that to be strong, safe, and durable.

Imagine, for example, you want to suspend something in the air -- let's say a bicycle. You're pretty sure that [this](_URL_6_) won't do. You're certain, though, that [this](_URL_5_) would. If you don't know the exact strength you need and how to achieve it, and you can afford it, you're going to err towards the latter, even though you know there's a good chance you're overdoing it. Better to overdo it and be wrong, then the opposite.

As a result, ancient Roman structures were often built to a safety factor up to *four times* what most modern ones were. Just to be on the safe side. Because they *didn't know* that they were overdoing it by that much.

It's *possible* to build to that same standard today, but it's hard to justify economically. Sure, we can build a bridge that will stand for two thousand years. But why would we? We're not going to bet on needing it or wanting that long, and it will be very expensive.

What we do instead is build to a reasonably manageable cost-benefit standard, that we've calculated we can reasonably afford to build and maintain indefinitely. In most cases, that's what makes the best economic sense. That's especially true when the final word comes from taxpayers instead of emperors.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Can't believe that the top comment doesn't mention anything about the lost art of Roman concrete.  Ancient Rome used an recipe for concrete that was - until very very recently - completely lost to modern knowledge.  Roman concrete was widely considered to be a miracle mystery until just a couple of years ago.

_URL_7_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: A roman bridge and your driveway are made from completely different materials. It's like asking why a ceramic mug lasts longer than a paper cup. 

_URL_8_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I can't really eli5, but this is a nice overview.  _URL_9_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The difference is those Roman bridges were built by expert stonemasons with vast experience and they took great pride in their work, whereas your drive was built by some lazy pikeys.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: A lot of modern bridges are made of a different concrete mix than Roman bridges. A lot of Roman bridges had a different mix of stone and sand that came from volcanic soils, which are chemically distinct from the concrete used in modern concrete. Additionally, modern concrete uses rebar, which can crack the concrete, and these micro-cracks can react with the rebar, rusting it from the outside in.

A *really* fascinating book that goes over the different kinds of concrete, and uses concrete to look at historical and architectural marvels is Concrete Planet by Robert Courtland. Simply a stunning read.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: CONTRACTOR HERE:

If your drive way doesn't have room to shift, it will crack. 

If your concrete slab dries to fast after being poured, it cracks because concrete shrinks when moisture leaves.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: One thing that no one has mentioned is that pre 1880's cement was much much weaker than it is today. In fact it was much more like a hydraulic lime, which is way more flexible. 

Modern cements are incredibly strong,  75 newton's per square inch plus, as the main use for it is for use in concrete for multi stories, skyscrapers etc. 

In fact only 1% of cement actually goes into bricks and mortar. This is why expansion joints are necessary in modern cement and concrete, otherwise they will crack due to expansion and contraction. 

Lime mortars and roman cements are a much more flexible binder and can often settle and out live many modern structures with good conservation. 

Source : I'm a Heritage and Conservation Brickmason
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Pave your driveway with solid granite blocks and it will be there 2,000 years from now.  

Pave it with generic concrete mixed by some thieving contractor's prison-furloughed brother-in-law and your dog will outlive it.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Cause all the crappy bridges they built have long since crumbled. What is left now is that tiny fraction of constructions that were of extraordinary quality!
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: It all balances out. Roman candles don't even last 2 minutes whereas regular candles last several hours.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Gravity was a lot lighter back then, because there were less people on the Earth at the time, so bridges were more sturdy. As gravity increased, it only strengthened the existing structures by compressing them more tightly. Your concrete driveway would need to be carved out of stones by hand and individually fitted if you didn't want it to crack due to the increased gravity of 7 billion people.    
    
Sadly, I know people who would believe that shit.       
     
Roman architecture in particular was all about math and engineering and making something "work" and still be beautiful. They used what they had on hand, and they figured out things (like arches) that really added support and stabilization to things.      
     
Modern day architecture is a lot looser, uses different materials (like concrete) and is overall, in my opinion, inferior to our ancestors simply because we don't care if it's going to last the test of time, we just want to work and be as cheap as possible. So the people laying the concrete in your driveway probably didn't use steamrollers and those big hammers that pack down the dirt enough to provide a suitable bed for the concrete. So as rain falls, it gets up underneath the concrete and into the soil bed, which starts to shift and slide and ultimately you end up with big giant cracks in your concrete from where there's no more "earth" underneath it, because it all washed away.        
       
If you really want a driveway that's going to last, pavers are really the way to go. They last decades, and if individual paving stones crack, break, etc, you just replace that paving stone instead of the entire driveway.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete becomes stronger over time through the development of secondary minerals forming as hydrates in the concrete matrix.  The pore spaces fill themselves with new crystal growth.  Most concrete is in modern use becomes weaker over time and exposure to water (especially salty water) when used in conjunction with metal or wood these structures are prone to decay.  Metal rusts and wood rots, molds and burns.  Roman structures used primarily stone and concrete fired at lower than modern temperatures using localized volcanic ash.  (I heard of this from these sources:  _URL_11_ , _URL_10_)
  Your driveway may be also subject to swelling soils underneath and heavy vehicles driving over it, faulting (microfaulting) and improper (a small possibility) laying.  Roman bridges that were on swelling soils or faults probably deteriorated during roman times, so there was a preservation bias for the strongest bridges on the steadiest ground.
tl`dr: Better materials, luck and the strongest survived to today.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The Romans were advanced engineers and had discovered several [volcanic ash additives](_URL_12_) that acted as a cementing agent in their concrete. Like in modern concrete the hardening process is a chemical reaction that occurs when the cement is exposed to lime and water as opposed to say drying mud bricks. This is why Roman concrete survives today. Comparing a 100mm thick driveway slab to a bridge isn't really fair though. Very few if any Roman 'driveways' survive to the modern day. I would also hazard that if our civilisation disappeared tomorrow many of our mega structures would also survive several millennia reasonably intact, though obviously your driveway will not.

If anyone is interested in Roman engineering I strongly recommend reading [De architectura](_URL_13_). It is an architectural handbook authored approx 15 BC (no one actually knows for sure) and covers many topics such as building materials, town planning etc. Interesting read.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The Romans used Volcanic Ash called pozzolana or "pit sand" in their mortar. By doing so their cement was much more resistant to salt water because of its higher alumina and silica content.
I am a Geologist Major, and learned about this in class. You will find many online resources about this topic as well!
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman bridges have regulated traffic, that was usually limited to horses. The bridge itself is made of real stonework (not concrete).

Your driveway is made of bitumen, a recyclable cheap substance made of oil. Unfortunately it loses many of it's properties to weathering. Also you park a multiton car on it.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The ancient Romans used a special concrete that gets stronger as it ages. Scientists have only recently figured out the recipe and are just beginning to learn how it works.

For more info, see here: _URL_14_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: When we compare your driveway to Roman bridges, do we include the ones that fell down over the course of 2000 years, or just the few that remain standing?
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: roman cement was made with volcanic ash making it more durable than any modern cement available today. this also makes it water resistant
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: They used less water and hammered it into place. [Source](_URL_15_)
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Civil Engineering Student here; Firstly in ancient times they just scaled up what worked. This often didn't work and they just tried to make it work. This meant the bridges that didn't work fell down pretty much straight away (as the max load was on placed on it) and have been checked and upgraded for modern loading. (Perfect) Arches are always in compression, their shape is the inverse of the bending moment diagram should it be a beam. Your Concrete driveway undergoes beading (depending on ground underneath). Concrete is meant to crack. A beam under a uniformally distributed load has tension at the bottom and compression at the top. Concrete has approx 0 tensile strength (that is why there is reinforcement steel to take the tension). The concrete in the tension zone cracks but as it didn't take any load anyway it is fine. Also concrete is susceptible to damage. Frost for example can cause water in the voids in the concrete to expand and contract causing cracking. Also chemicals, road salt, sulphates etc. can all damage concrete. 

Consider geotechnical (soil) conditions as well. Bridges are founded with deep foundations on rock. driveways could have basements, old coal mines, voids, whatever underneath. Also as it is soil the weather conditions can cause shrink and swell on the soil. Consolidation can still be ongoing up to 50 years after loading for clay soils. 

Fatigue could be another cause of cracking, this could occur with bridges as well though. Fatigue is reduction of strength due to cyclic (on/off) loading but I won't go into detail.

TL:DR Concrete is suspectible to cracking; You only see roman structures that have survived long enough
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete and modern concrete differ in three important ways: steel reinforcement, volcanic ash, and age. 

Roman concrete was made with volcanic ash, which is a very fine powder. The smaller particles of ash makes the pores in the concrete (tiny spaces between particles) very small. This prevents water from soaking into the concrete, which breaks it down and erodes it. 

Concrete takes a short time to set, but a long time to cure. When it's set, it's hard, but basically only because it's dry. As the concrete cures, it undergoes a chemical change that makes it tougher. The longer it cures, the tougher it gets. 

This is why your driveway doesn't last (plus the fact that Roman concrete didn't have tons of car constantly moving on it).

Modern bridges also use steel reinforcement bars, which, when exposed to the caustic concrete, rust. Rusting steel expands, which puts pressure on the concrete from the inside. 

Tl;Dr They're not the same kind of concrete.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: This is because the Romans used a secert recipe unknown to anyone living in the modern age. This recipe was lost during the dark ages. However scientists have recently rediscovered the recipe! Inside the concrete, deposits of volcanic ash were found. If you look Pompeii today (the Roman city were Mt. Vesuvius erupted) you will still see bodies covered in volcanic ash, frozen in time. The Romans were smart enough to put this ash in their concrete mix, and nobodies thought of it since.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Part of this has to do with the fact that their structures were built to last.....another part has to do with the fact that you don't see vast majority of their stuff which fell apart. Just the parts that remain.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete was made with a blend of volcanic ash, limestone, and other minerals from that area. These materials formed bonds that were resistant against the elements for years. 
More info here:
_URL_16_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete is simply far superior due to volcanic rock and ash used to make it, there is currently studys under way on this exaxt thing because its more eco friendly!  

_URL_17_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: In modern construction the lowest bid wins. Then to break even, contractors cut cost any way possible. Cheapest materials, labor and bare minimum to pass inspections.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Depends how many people died and suffered to build it. The more death and suffering the better the product.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Too lazy to browse to see if someone else said this somewhere in the comments.  Roman bridges never had 300,000+ automobiles rolling over them per hour, each weighing anywhere from 1500lbs to 60,000lbs rolling through them on a daily basis.  Also, the majority of them are in temperate regions, so you don't get as high of a heat/cold fluctuation as we have (at least compared to here in the upper midwest USA).  There's an old saying around here: we have two seasons - Winter and Road Construction.  Believe you me, a bit of water and extreme cold/heat will do numbers to concrete, no matter its composition.  Even softer materials such as asphalt which contract/expand better than concrete need repair/replacement every few years.  


Modern concrete is as good as the technology gets, since it provides us with the perfect balance of cost, strength/durability, and ease of manufacturing/use.  If the modern day engineers built a bridge for modern day use, but all you got were foot traffic, horse buggies, or the occasional army-on-horseback riding through, I'd bet those bridges will stand for several millennia. 


It's unfair to compare your concrete driveway to bridges, though, since the thickness of the concrete comes into play.  Most slabs for residential driveways and garages only go about 4 to 6 inches deep, and are not uniform across the entire surface.  If you've ever noticed, the contractors rarely use anything more than a 2x6 to create the edges of your driveway.  Assuming the depth is universal (99.99% of the time it isn't) then you'd have a 6" slab all the way around.  Not bad, but still prone to breaking under its own weight as the ground shifts.  On the other hand, if you've ever seen them pour concrete for roadways or bridges, it is rebar-reinforced and poured several feet thick.  


TL:DR (ELI5); don't compare your 4" driveway slab made to park one or two small cars to a bridge designed to safely carry heavy volume.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: If your 10 year old driveway is cracking, it is one of 2 things.  Poor mud or poor craftsmanship.  The ready mix industry is pretty reliable, however there are times when loads get contaminated with things that don't belong in concrete.  

It could be one of a million factors, but typically cracked concrete is a result of poor grade prep (compacting, fill, class V, etc) - poor design (expansion and control joints in the wrong spot), poor finishing, incorrect reinforcement placing, etc.

Keep in mind, cracked concrete does not necessarily mean a "bad" concrete job.  There are 2 guarantees with concrete - it gets hard and cracks.  It is all about CONTROLLING where the cracks are.  That is why you see guys sawing a brand new slab after they pour with diamond saws, or they use a groover or cutter to cut a joint into the concrete for the naturally occurring cracks to develop in an aesthetically pleasing way.  Al the "lines" you see in the concrete you walk on that are nice and straight were put there so the concrete would crack along those lines.

Now spalling, chipping, scaling concrete is another story.  Same culprits (bad mud, bad finishing practices, improper curing process, de-icing chemicals with no protection (siloxanes, acrylics, methacrylates, linseed oil, PAMS curing compounds, etc), over-finishing, adding too much water, hot windy days where the slab gets away from you, can all contribute to a failed pour.

in conclusion - cracked concrete aint a bad thing - that is what concrete does.

also - modern concrete is evolves and changes.  volcanic pozzolans, fly ash, different Portland cements and admixtures are always changing, and the "concrete" that the romans used is fundamentally different than the concrete used today with the advent of synthetic fiber reinforcing, chemical admixtures and water reducers etc.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: There are a variety of contributing factors. The makeup of today's concrete is weaker than that of Roman concrete unless it is specifically designed not to be for heavy duty purposes. Roman concrete would be prohibitively expensive today, on the scale that we use it. 

There are a lot of "modern" innovations which are actually inferior to what was used in ancient times, being meant to fill a function adequately at far less expense. Concrete is one; another major item on that list would be paper. Wood pulp makes paper that degrades relatively quickly compared to the materials of yesteryear (it's also much cheaper, far less of a pain in the ass, etc.).

Other contributing factors are undoubtedly function (there were no heavy vehicles thundering across Roman concrete, or resting on it for prolonged periods of time--not like what we have today, at least. Nothing more than fully-loaded carts and lots of foot traffic.). I don't pretend to know to what extent this contributes, but it would seem to be a factor.

Finally... most ancient Roman structures that are still standing after 2,000 years are only in "good condition" for something that's been standing for 2,000 years. They're largely collapsed, they're in pieces, no individual portion is completely intact, they've been cannibalized for material, etc. They are, with very few exceptions, no longer capable of fulfilling their original functions.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: If we are talking about Roman concrete then it has to do with a different formula. The ground underneath has nothing to do with it, as this concrete holds up across a wide range of terrain. 

Basically, they made it better back then. [Roman Concrete](_URL_19_)

Looks like they used [volcanic ash and seawater](_URL_20_) as special ingredients. 

Edit: Not only did it hold up better, it was more environmentally friendly than today's concrete. [Source](_URL_18_)

"The secret to Roman concrete lies in its unique mineral formulation and production technique. As the researchers explain in a press release outlining their findings, The Romans made concrete by mixing lime and volcanic rock. For underwater structures, lime and volcanic ash were mixed to form mortar, and this mortar and volcanic tuff were packed into wooden forms. The seawater instantly triggered a hot chemical reaction. The lime was hydratedincorporating water molecules into its structureand reacted with the ash to cement the whole mixture together.

The Portland cement formula crucially lacks the lyme and volcanic ash mixture. As a result, it doesnt bind quite as well when compared with the Roman concrete, researchers found. It is this inferior binding property that explains why structures made of Portland cement tend to weaken and crack after a few decades of use, Jackson says."
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Well I make cement (not concrete) for a living, so I will take a shot at this. There is a lot of pressure to reduce cost nowadays. This pressure has done several things:

Ther is much less over-design in the structure itself. Typical safety factors range from around 2 - 5, meaning a bridge might be designed to carry up to 5x the intended load. In ancient times, the exact strength could not be calculated in advance, so they dramatically overbuilt.

Cement builds strength much faster than in the past. This save a lot of money because of the quicker construction times, but durability suffers. I could easilly make much more durable cement, but it would set slower, and noone would want to buy it.

Finally, there is one glaring contradiction to your observation. You are comparing the very best structures built at the time to one of the cheapest structures built today. A better comparison would be to the concrete used in skyscrapers today. That concrete is much more advanced, very strong, expected to last centuries, and of course very very expensive.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Just some thinking, no scientific proof for this one:
The concrete that was poored for your driveway is probably pretty solid. After some years of expanding and decreasing in size beacause of temperature fluctuations it is pushed to it's limit. At some point the molecules and particles it's made of won't bent anymore, but crack. The intermoleculair bonds will break so there is room for the solid matter to expand in and shrink if needed.
The roman bridges however consist of multiple parts: you have the big stone blocks and the cement. Both of which are pretty loose from each other. This way the materials wil behave differently when temperatures rise or decrease and thus the shrinking and expanding won't put as much pressure on the matter itself.
(note: probably the cement will grind and break up first, because the stones expanding is much more consistent and powerful than the cement mixture that on it's own consists out of multiple different solids)

Hope you agree with me.
If not: leave a comment. I'm curious about other their thoughts as well!
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: What is used in your driveway is likely unreinforced portland cement.

Modern cement is not particularly strong by itself. To make it not crack, you need to reinforce it with rebar and/or inserting shims to allow expansion and contraction.

In the heyday of roman concrete it was quite different than modern concrete using portland cement. In particular roman formulations used a bit of pozzolans, or volcanic pumice. Experiments have shown that some formulations with this (the romans had several different formulations for different applications and times) makes a more crack resistant concrete. However, reinforced concrete is generally better than unreinforced.

Concrete is very old and slow, air-setting concrete has been found that predates the romans by thousands of years. It is widely believed the romans invented concrete that can set without air, which they used for applications such as bridge footings. Actually though, it was the Greeks who first used concrete with pumice and concrete which could set underwater. However, they did not use it as widely as the Romans, who made it famous.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I wish I could find the article or documentary where I heard this but today's concrete is very different from ancient concrete, we use cheap and abundant materials whereas I believe the ancient romans used..I think it was volcano ash or a particular type of sand which was much stronger and durable. Hopefully someone here can  back me up with a link to what I saw/read

Edit >  some mention of it here _URL_21_ 

 >  Gypsum and lime were used as binders. Volcanic dusts, called pozzolana or "pit sand", were favored where they could be obtained. Pozzolana makes the concrete more resistant to salt water than modern-day concrete.[4] The pozzolanic mortar used had a high content of alumina and silica.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete was made with volcanic ash which pretty much made the stuff indestructible. Most things made by it have lasted more than a 1,000 years. We've only recent found out how to create the same sort of concrete.  In fact a project that used flyash(very similar to roman volcanic ash) it in the Florida keys for the support beams for a raised road was found to be irremovable when they decided to expand the road.  They blew up a few pillars with high explosives, but at such cost that they gave up and just built the new road higher than the old to avoid having to remove the old pillars.

A bit on the topic:
_URL_22_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Civil engineer here. If your driveway is getting major cracks already it was probably designed/installed improperly or there was a defect in the mix when it was poured. Also you could be parking really heavy things on it. A pretty common problem for cracking is to have a subgrade (i.e. the stuff under the bottom of the slab) that is too thin or too soft. The concrete may not have been poured thick enough too, but that doesn't happen as often. Even more rare is when joints are cut in the wet concrete incorrectly. Odd shapes and sizes of panels can increase the chance of cracking.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Your driveway is a cheap imitation called portland cement, mainly ground limestone and other rocks. The formula for Roman concrete was lost until just recently, and added volcanic ash and seawater. Salt would actually corrode cement, but the ash resists it somehow, and maybe it gives it some equilibrium against the environment (utter speculation).

Volcanic ash might not be economical in the quantities we use today, and salt might damage steel reinforcement.

Your driveway is also one big slab. Big slabs tend to crack from thermal expansion, or if water gets in and freezes. I doubt it freezes in Rome most years.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: When a local highway was built here on Long Island "sunrise highway" their was an article that said they were mixing in volcanic ash into the concrete.  It was a technique borrowed from the Romans.  The ash had very tiny particles and filled in the holes in the concrete on a microscopic level.  That way water could not seep into the concrete and cause it to break apart when it froze. Water seeping into concrete and freezing is the enemy of concrete.
The article described who this was rediscovered after a couple of thousand years.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Keep in mind that you're talking about the Roman bridges that have survived out of all that have been built, and compared it to a modern example of something that isn't lasting.

The Romans built plenty of things that haven't lasted till today as well, and there are plenty of things we have built that may last for a long time. We just don't know which ones will last.

tl;dr: There's a wide spread of the life of various structures. Your driveway and that Roman bridge are just on the opposite ends of the spectrum
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Your driveway is likely only 4 inches thick built on a base of sand that was probably not compacted like it should be. There may be a mesh reinforcement that was not pulled into the center of the concrete as it was being poured. The concrete may have been to hot, to cold, to wet when poured. The base settled over time and cracked the concrete. Low bidding may be a factor.
The Romans built to last using soldier labor with the cost as no object. (mostly)
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete (opus caementicium) is quite different to modern concrete; hence why it has stood the test of time so well. As far as I'm aware for centuries there were numerous attempts to recreate Roman concrete as no one was able to find an actual recipe in Roman records. Eventually the concrete was found to be made from specific levels of pasty, hydrate lime; pozzolan ash; and a few pieces of fist-sized rock. It's generally believed that the ash gives it it's unique properties.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I studied this recently during my class on Ancient Civilizations.  Apparently, the reason why the buildings and roadwork that remains from the ancient Romans is due to the ingredients they used in their building mixtures.  Volcanic ash was the primary source that apparently gave the concrete its ability to last longer in harsher environments.  Hope this helps on the answer towards your question. :)
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete was mixed with red volcanic ash mined on the Isle of Santorini. It hardened underwater and is a much stronger concrete than is made today. Generally speaking, Roman engineers would avoid using a "grout" and fit the stones together so that gravity (i.e. the arch keystone) would hold things together. In other words, we dont make things like we used to.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: its called planned obsolescence.  if you only have to pay for something one time and then it works forever the company that sold it to you will go bankrupt.  roman roads were built before some jack ass invented this scam.  back then, you built something right the first time.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: What the top rated guy said. ALSO, Romans used a different kind of concrete, they had some sort of volcano shit in it that makes it a lot higher quality than our run of the mill cycle and recycle and recycled concrete.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: [This will most likely be buried but apparently science has figured this one out.](_URL_23_) Apparently the secret ingredient was volcanic ash. This story did the rounds in December 2014, [here's another one from the daily mail.]( _URL_24_)
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman cement is actually made differently than the cement we use today, and even the cement used by other civilizations around that time.

Roman cement was mixed with ash from the volcanos, actually making it stronger.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The Romans didn't know how to build a road that would last ten years. They had to massively overengineer everything they built because they didn't have the mathematical knowhow to build to a particular expectation.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Because all the crappy bridges buildt in roman times have allready collapsed. There are almost certainly some bridges buildt today that will still be around in 2000 years time. Most however wont.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: This is true, however 2000 year old bridges obviously did not constantly have 2500 lb cars driving over them. They had people walking over them. Therefore, less stress= less cracks/damage
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: [Roman concrete was different than our concrete and had a secret ingredient that made it less susceptible to tiny cracks - volcanic ash.](_URL_25_)

Source: I'm part Roman. :)
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Romans mixed their concrete with volcanic ash, which creates a stronger bond. What we use in place of ash isn't nearly as durable.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete contained volcanic ash which is probably a large factor in why they are still standing strong today.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Just you wait until [this self-healing biological concrete](_URL_26_) comes into the market.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: "In the middle 20th century, concrete structures were designed to last 50 years, and a lot of them are on borrowed time, Monteiro says. Now we design buildings to last 100 to 120 years. Yet Roman harbor installations have survived 2,000 years of chemical attack and wave action underwater.

How the Romans did it

The Romans made concrete by mixing lime and volcanic rock. For underwater structures, lime and volcanic ash were mixed to form mortar, and this mortar and volcanic tuff were packed into wooden forms. The seawater instantly triggered a hot chemical reaction. The lime was hydrated  incorporating water molecules into its structure  and reacted with the ash to cement the whole mixture together.

Descriptions of volcanic ash have survived from ancient times. First Vitruvius, an engineer for the Emperor Augustus, and later Pliny the Elder recorded that the best maritime concrete was made with ash from volcanic regions of the Gulf of Naples (Pliny died in the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius that buried Pompeii), especially from sites near todays seaside town of Pozzuoli. Ash with similar mineral characteristics, called pozzolan, is found in many parts of the world.

Another striking contribution of the Monteiro team concerns the hydration products in concrete. [...]

[...] Finally, microscopic studies [...] identified the other minerals in the Roman samples. Integration of the results from the various beamlines revealed the minerals potential applications for high-performance concretes, including the encapsulation of hazardous wastes."
_URL_27_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The romans used lime mortar which has greater flexibility and actually gets stronger with age. The flexibility allows the wall to cope with small land movements and should microscopic cracks appear the wall can resettle and the mortar "reheal" by chemical reaction. Lime also doesn't trap water which can create pressure and make a wall fail. Lime motar is also softer than the stone or brick used to make the wall. This is important because if there is movement the mortar breaks first because of this, which means the wall just needs repatching with new mortar. If you try to smash down a concreted wall then very often you'll destroy the bricks as well because they are weaker than the concrete.

The inverse is important and in short, concrete is strong but brittle. It's something like glass, very strong but it can't cope well with twisting or bending. It's not as straightforward as described, the Roman structures would be maintained very well and it could be the case that your driveway has maybe more damage from freezing winters. However, all concrete cracks it's just in the nature of the material.

Even older surviving structures didn't use mortar at all, neither lime nor concrete, and instead just used dry stone cut [accurately to shape](_URL_28_). It has the added advantage of being able to be dismantled like a jigsaw and new blocks cut to match old damaged ones.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I am not sure if many of you understand how drastically different Mediterranean climate is to most of that in US. Climate factors such as  freeze-thaw cycles are critical when it comes to concrete serviceability.

It is hard to compare regular driveway slab to some beam bridge, since in general they are designed to be working under different conditions and loads. Say, those roman bridges or aqueducts are currently experiencing very small service loads (or none at all), while your typical road slab is experiencing more under the course of one year than that bridge had in all his life in comparison.

In addition to that, slabs are typically vulnerable to shrinkage-creep cycles, as suggested by one of the commenters here, and unless they are placed in ideal conditions they are bound to fail serviceability checks (read: crack) sooner or later. But it's ok, we can replace them very quickly. On the other hand, typical ancient stone road bridge utilizes much smaller elements so much less vulnerable to shrinkage. Why don't we use stone roads then anymore? Because they cannot survive continious high dynamic load cycles, much more vulnerable to freeze-thaw and are harder to maintain.

eli5-TL:DR - stone bridges and road slabs are different things. Those slabs are in use while most of roman bridges are not. It is not that cold in Rome so their bridges don't crack due to that.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Can say nothing about how to build bridges and explain much about that. However about Roman Bridges I have a small amount of knowledge. 
They designate bridges as these 3:
Roman Bridge: Construction or reconstruction maintaining the original design
Medieval-Roman Bridge: Medieval reconstruction over Roman foundations
Roman?-Medieval Bridge: Medieval Bridge not of Roman design but on Roman pathway.
There are 4 main bridges still being used today all of those have several times been reconstructed:
_URL_30_
_URL_32_
_URL_29_
_URL_31_

No expert by all means in Geology or even Petrology but my experience is in the fact that I've lived for the first 20 years of my life in a Roman road. Leading to a Roman bridge. And next to a Roman Aqueduct.
 Which leads me to this: The really impressive ones are the aqueducts. When it rains? It still carries water. It's obviously not in use. Broken in parts, only bits and bobs remain. But impressive none the less.

PS: I am editing the post to also say this: A lot of the things called Roman, sorry English not my first language, are actually in Roman Style? So you will often have things designed exactly the same way and built between 16th and 18th century. 
Leading to a lot of confusion.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: An important consideration to make is that not every Roman bridge is still standing 2000 years later, we only see the very best and they are a fraction of their overall infrastructure. In much the same way, just because your driveway cracks after 10 years doesn't mean there isn't a driveway out there that has far exceeded that age. Next we need to consider the engineering levels at each time, the Romans knew less and as a result were more likely to over-engineer structures to ensure they were sufficient. Today you can fairly accurately predict the strength and failure points of any building material, so engineers today can get by with much less.


All of that said, the largest consideration would have to be the foundations involved. Roman bridges likely had foundations in solid rock, and since there isn't a lot of flexing occurring the materials experience a much longer life. Your driveway on the other hand is likely over dirt that can erode leaving gaps beneath or allowing roots to grow upward into it; and the constant addition/removal of a load over the thin slab will cause a lot more flex. Concrete is very strong, but very brittle, and that constant stress from flexing lends to cracks.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The Romans figured out that arch bridges are really strong. They would make two identical sets of bricks, stack them up in to two identical towers. You could stack them and say something like "brick 'a' would be on the bottom, brick 'b' would be on top brick 'a', brick 'c' would be on top of 'b', brick 'd' would be on top of brick 'c', and so on". Now once the have the two towers stacked up very neatly, they would put one last brick between the tops of the two towers. This last brick is called a "keystone", and the two towers beside it keep it from falling down because they are really heavy and put a lot of friction on it. The bridge is then laid over a bunch of these arches, on top of each of the keystones. Somehow the load is evenly distributed. Since there are already cracks between the bricks, there is no more need for major cracks.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: One thing to keep in mind is what the builders intend.

You probably live in a neighborhood that was built by one company that was not interested in building stronger than they had to.

And it's not like we can't be as good as the Romans if we wanted to be.

Look at our Monuments, and other things that we built to last.

The St. Louis Arch for instance? Because it's near a fault, when they were making it they drove the foundations deep and it won't rust. Plus Arch's are generally strong shapes.

This makes it possibly among the most durable Man made objects in the World.

And most Roman building was the same way. They didn't build the average homes and shops they needed to last forever, that would be silly and expensive.

Homes today in many ways are much better and more convenient.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The Romans used an additive to the concrete. One we haven't bee able to find. But your question is age old, and there are people out there looking for the secret. Some say its hair, some straw, some say its needles. There is a denser cement than that they used for driveways. You can use it for driveways, but it much more expensive. They even have double hydrological, and they are used for making high rises and sky scrapper, the bigger the hard the cement needs to be. They used none rusting metal tiny needles to keep from cracking. The reason a driveway craks is because there is no metal frame work in it, to keep it together, so when it naturally contracts and expands with the temperatures, nothing to bind it.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Another key factor is that the Romans would use a lot more concrete in their buildings and supports. Concrete has a high compressive strength and very weak tensile strength which we overcome now a days by using steel reinforcing. This meant that a column we use today with steel reinforcing would need to be significantly larger without the steel reinforcement. A column with a 4 square foot cross section today may of needed to be 20 square feet in the roman times. Because the volume needed would be so much larger it would also take longer to deteriorate. You can still design modern day concrete to last a 100 years, but the cost would be enormous.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Because the Romans built it better.  Seriously, if you had a time machine and went back to ancient Rome, picked up a bunch of Roman craftsman, and said "Build me a driveway that would last a thousand years" -they will pull it off.  

BUT

You go to some guy named Roman running a driveway paver business down the street from where you live.  He probably doesn't even know what materials exist that would last longer than a decade.  He won't know shit.  He's got machines that will level it, lay down gravel, and put some asphalt on top.  That's all he knows.  And if that doesn't last more than a few years you're fucked.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Lots of valid replies so far, but for a true 5 year old level:

- This is true of antiques in general - people think old stuff was really well built.  Nope.  Its just that all the poorly built stuff is gone.

- Stone bridges in general have to be made really durable to work at all, and are really expensive to build so are made to last.  Driveways work even if cheaply made, and nobody wants to pay a lot for one.

- Roman concrete used chemicals that make it more durable than modern concrete.  The stone that the bridges are mostly made of is more durable than either.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I know I've seen something about a certain material the Romans used in their concrete that we don't use today. I can't remember exactly what the material is, but believe it was a sort of sand/silt/ash found on a volcanic mountain that causes the concrete made by the Romans to continue hardening as it ages. Pretty sure it as said that the hardening was still happening in most Roman structures that were built that way, so they will only continue to get stronger as they age.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: A lot of people are saying that Roman concrete is stronger than modern day concrete, this is not correct. It may be more durable and last longer but it certainly would not have the compression strength that we can make today. Any academic paper I've found on the strength of ancient concrete has said that the strength varies greatly, however the average for Roman concrete is around 12MPA ( 1,700 psi), where as modern high strength concrete can go beyond 150 MPA (22,000 psi ).
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: A few issues:

The Romans had a slightly different recepie for concrete that was lost to time and only very recently discovered. It is stronger, lighter and more environmentally friendly. This alone doesn't account for the difference though. 

The romans didn't reinforce their concrete. If you don't have enough cover over your steel reo, it will be exposed to air and rust. 

Your driveway is likely too thin, was left to cure wrongly (bad weather, lack of water, poorly mixed.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Lowball bidding, half-assed site prep, inadequate compaction, lack of/to few cold joints in the slab sections and sub-par workmanship.

But mostly it's because the product used today is sand-laden/lime/ash deficient and inferior to the product used 2000 years ago.

You'll actually get better/longer life out of your driveway using compacted cinder instead of concrete or asphalt. The up-front cost is higher for cinder, but you'll save a ton of money in maintenance in the long-term.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I know this one.  They are just now re-discovering that the Romans put a substance into their concrete.  It was one of those things that "everyone" knows so they never recorded it.  The substance was very common and would make the concrete stronger and allow it to flex and not crack.  We have begun using a substance called "fly-ash" from coal power plants in ND that does a similar thing to concrete.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: It is because during the Roman time period they came up with the brilliant idea of putting volcanic ash into their cement mix. Adding this simple and abundant resource to the mix also made it weather durable and even waterproof! That is why some of the concrete building and pieces of art are not corroded whilst in the salty ocean water. :)
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: To be fair, all the Roman bridges that fell down are no longer visible, and I suspect that's the majority of them, so they're not part of your equation.

However, there is also [significant research into the durability and tensile strength of Roman concrete,](_URL_33_) and the process for making it is still not completely understood.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Either your concrete driveway is absolutely shit, the base course is shit, the reinforcement is shit or whoever built it forgot to build expansion joints into the pavement. On the other hand, roman bridges are built from stone, have good foundations, are built without the need for reinforcement and each joint provides for expansion.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: You have to look more at the construction of your driveway, there are ways of doing a driveway/concrete work to last, the issue is it costs far out weigh the longevity of it. 

We want things fast, we want things cheap, and we want quality goods. This is not how things work in reality.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: You know when I read this I was thinking if I asked my dad this. He would have said they don't make things like they used to son. Now thinking would have told my son the same thing if he would have asked me too. I made explain it like a dad today...
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: _URL_34_

It's because the Romans used volcanic rock that produces a durable mineral that prevents the spreading of the tiny cracks that end up growing and breaking modern cement. If I remember right they started using volcanic rock because they had massive amounts of ash laying over next to Vesuvius
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Part of it too, is that it had been found that the materials used for Roman style cement formed a small crystalline structure over the exterior that helped protect it. The exact mix of materials used was list to time, and modern cement for not form this protective barrier.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Hi, here is an answer to your question regarding Roman concrete, The Romans used a different type of method which involved salt water, the salt water creates aluminium deposits into the mixture during the hardening process making Roman concrete more durable than what we use today.

_URL_35_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The masonry work was made with a special blend that really resisted time.  that's about it, and also good design and construction.    Romans built roads and aqueducts really, really well.  NOT LIKE MY STUPID ASS CITY.  ELI5: THEY WEREN'T CHEAP LITTLE FUCKS
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Because only the ones that survived, survived. I'm sure 99% of Roman architecture has long since vanished into nothing but the 1% that happened to be built exceptionally well are what remains and that's what we see today.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: [Survivorship bias](_URL_36_): They made a lot of bridges and acquaducts, and you only see the ones that lasted.

Driveways in disrepair are still used. But 5 bucks says the currently cracked driveways won't be here in 50 years.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: All the things built 2000 years ago that are still standing today have lasted for 2000 years.

But the things that were built 10 years ago that are still around today have only lasted for 10 years.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The Romans' concrete is especially strong because it is made from their volcanic rock. The concrete is so strong that the structures have well outlasted the Greek structures and will outlast even your driveway.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Mainly because the materials used are somewhat different. Romans used more volcanic sand and ash. This causes a different and stronger type of chemical bond than the materials used in modern concrete. 

_URL_37_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The Romans may have also made better concrete by mixing volcanic sand with limestone.  

Source: _URL_38_

My knowledge base: I red it on the internet and I once made a sand castle.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: We are only seeing the bridges/structures that survived. There were tons of other buildings that didn't. We will probably say the same thing in two thousand years about structures of our era
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman Concrete my friend. Archaeologists are trying to find / or found the way to make it. It lasts super long (Millennia), while our concrete nowadays would hardly last 100 years..
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I believe a kind of (rare) volcanic sand - found locally at that time- was one of the 'ingredients' of the concrete mix, and that supposedly gave it its durability.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: roman made a special concrete that is better then the concrete we use today in the past we didnt know the secret concrete mix but now we know. _URL_39_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Among the other good reasons mentioned here is probably selection bias. All the shitty bridges have been gone for centuries so all we have left are the good ones.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete uses a mixture of lime and volcanic rock, as the mixture dries and hardens, it forms molecular bonds much more lasting than modern concrete formulas.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: We lost the recipe. Romans had the best concrete even in the docks that are still there it is way better then what we have now. 

_URL_40_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The old becomes the new. You should lay PAVERS. The stone bridges of the Romans are based on the same technology. They did not pour concrete :)
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Because the old Roman structures aren't loaded with cars, trucks and whatever else on a daily basis. They're either tourist attractions or just used for foot traffic...
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Because General Maximus threatened that bridge with his legion in 45 ad.  

"Stand, bridge!  For the age!  For the Glory of Rome!"

And so there it is.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: What's the worst that can happen if a Roman bridge collapses?
What's the worst that can happen if your driveway cracks into a few pieces? 

Exactly.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I'm a civil technologist who specializes in concrete quality control.  You have no idea how frustrating this thread is that keeps repeating the same wrong shit.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete was made with volcanic ash instead of sand like modern concrete. It takes hundreds of years to fully cure and gets stronger with time.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Remember only the best Roman buildings are still standing, all the crap ones have fallen down and the stone has been nicked to build with.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: The sweat of slave labor hardens their building materials harder than you can imagine. And simply can't be matched by the contactor doing your driveway.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Didn't I read somewhere that Roman concrete used some kind of volcanic ash and someone had rediscovered the recipe for their super strong concrete?
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Romans knew a different way of making concrete, which was much better than ours.

We only rediscovered the formula in December, 2014:
_URL_41_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I'm assuming you live in America.  Roads and bridges are built cheaply here so they need fixing more often to create more jobs.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: [Roman concrete](_URL_42_) is much different than your typical driveway concrete. This is probably the biggest reason why there's such a difference in quality.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: We also have no idea how they made their concrete. We have taken guesses at it, but still can't compete with their quality.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Romans used mostly rock joined whit really good concrete.

Your driveway is made whit litle rock, by the lowest bidder.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: In America, the bridge is still standing after 2000 years.  In soviet Russia, after 2000 years still standing on bridge!
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: the old bridges that Flagler built in the keys are in great shape, the replacement bridges -  not so much!
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: I'm sure part of it it due to the fact that the Romans weren't driving cars over their bridges everyday
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: It all comes down to workmanship.... was your driveway built by slaves? Cause the Roman bridges were
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Long answer? You can find that elsewhere in the thread.

Short answer? Slaves get shit done.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Do you live in 4 seasons zone? The freeze-thaw process is a killer to rigid structures.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: IIRC, The recipe for Roman concrete is a lost technology.  A lost art.

_URL_43_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Also, Roman Concrete had a better cement from active volcanoes

_URL_44_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: They don't make them like they used to? I got nothing.
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: If Roman bridges are so good, why don't we build more?
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Roman concrete was far stronger than ours today:

_URL_45_
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: What did the romans ever do for us?
question: How can Roman bridges be still standing after 2000 years, but my 10 year old concrete driveway is cracking? answer: Because your driveway wasn't financed by an empire?
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Many aquatic animals are able to lay eggs that can dry up and go dormant until they get rehydrated again. Algae leaves spores that do the same.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Life, uh, finds a way.

Eggs can hitch rides on other animals. For instance. birds walk around the edge of one pond with animals in it, get the sticky eggs of frogs and fish on its feet, then fly to the new pond and search for food there. Some eggs can just survive deep in the mud until the pond refills.  Flooding can carry fish and eggs to the pond as well.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Depends on the aquatic creature. 

Some animals, like certain species of fish and amphibians go into a hibernation or suspended animation state in a little "cocoon" they make out of mucus and mud and bury themselves in the mud. When the pond gets filled again, the cocoon dissolves and they emerge again.

Many insects lay eggs and die, when the pond fills again the eggs hatch and the cycle begins again. 

Others migrate to other water sources, and maybe move around when the rivers are full and/or flood.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: You also have fish hatcheries and farms that raise large populations of fish (for example trout) and then deliver them via trucks with large holding tanks on them to wherever a population boost is needed. So even some isolated farmer's backyard pond that's not even remotely close to a water channel can end up with a thriving fish population.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Nothing on this Earth is a closed system. Period. There are places that come close, like Madagascar (The only place my current drunk ass can think of at the moment), where life evolves down its own little pathway, almost completely independent of the rest of the world.  
  
I remember a story of a tomato plant growing on some god-forsaken no life hell of a volcano perimeter, and the reason it got there? Some dude shit on it, leaving a tomato seed. How the hell they worked that one out, I dunno. But life is constantly moving, expanding, filling voids.  Traveling through your bowels.
  
It's why vaccination is so important. Things like measles, or polio, aren't completely dead in the world. there are six degrees of separation between you and Kevin Bacon, that's the same number (if that) to you and someone with polio. That pond isn't dead yet, and it's just waiting for the right conditions to come and fill it again with life.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: I know this doesn't exactly answer your question, because it's not addressing ponds that have *completely* dried up, but I think it's relevant and really neat. 

In the Everglades alligators are the reason most species are able to survive the dry season. This is because of what is commonly known as "Gator Pits". They dig out large pits in existing bodies of water which are deep enough to hold water throughout the dry season. This gives the animals in the area a crucially important (though greatly diminished from the wet season) water source. If it were not for the alligators, the delicate ecosystem that is the Everglades would quickly collapse (or at least suffer a dramatic change wherein many species go extinct). Alligators are the Kings and Stewards of the Everglades.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: When the lake or river fills again it opens into the ocean which provides access once more for aquatic animals like salmon to return. There have even been situations in the past where it [rained aquatic animals](_URL_0_) such as in 1861 it rained fish in Singapore, and in 2016 at Pathapatnam, Srikakulam district, Andhra Pradesh, or toads and frogs in 2009 at Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: From a fish and wild life class I took there are 3 ways

1.) Some life just buries itself in the mud and goes dormant, or some eggs just don't hatch until the conditions are right.

2.) Ducks and other more mobile animals will spread it around. Fish eggs get stuck to their feet and then fall off in the new pond.

3.) This is actually probable the most used but lots of ponds are really part of a water shed, a piece of land that shares the same drainage system. In normal levels of water they are un-connected lakes and ponds.

However when the system is flush with water maybe during spring snow melt or it just rains a lot, all the ponds, lakes , streams actually become connected by small streams. These streams connect the otherwise unconnected ponds with the bigger lakes and rivers.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Also, many species of insects that have a larval stage in the pond (dragonfly, diving beetles) return to the pond by the adult parents laying eggs once the water returns.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: In the Northeast USA if a pool dries up every year it is a "vernal pool" and a specific critical type of habitat for some species to survive without fish as predators.

_URL_1_
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: A bit off topic but years ago I visited Israel and in the desert they have a well called the Crazy Well. Every few minutes it completely empties into a cavern underneath but it's fun to see what happens to all the animals that live in the well as the water retreats.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Eggs often get carried around on birds feet. I've had frogs hatching in a puddle on my roof that way.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Most often it is just flooding bringing in fish from elsewhere. Very common in places with heavy rain seasons
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: This explanation sort of includes other great ones here...but perhaps is interesting.  When I was a kid in the 80's my grandparents got relocated about 1/2 mile from their land to make room for I-75 to be built. On the new property the government dug 3 borrow pits to use for the highway.  The pits appeared more or less dead and wouldn't hold rainwater long.  So along came Hurricane Elena which caused massive flooding on and around that property.  It filled up those pits and you could take a rowboat all the way to a stream nearly a mile away. That stream feeds in to a river (The Alafia) which feeds in to Tampa Bay and from there The Gulf of Mexico.  It wasn't long before the water receded we realized our pits were full of a variety of fish. Plus there was dead sea life everywhere on dry ground. I don't know the technicalities of it but my grandfather "fixed" the pits to hold water, ran irrigation to them, and became a fish farmer. So flooding is one reason why.  We would also occasionally see birds drop fish, snakes, and turtles from who-knows-where in to our ponds. The ponds remain "alive" to this date.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: A couple of other reasons...

Ponds are generally/sometimes near a river, this river floods and fills pond up, fish with it.

Fish eggs are known to travel attached to birds who frequents waterways. Spreading fishes.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: There is a lot of anecdotal evidence that waterfowl play a role in this.

Imagine a duck landing in a one water body and picking up particulate on their belly, chest, and legs.  They then fly to the newly filled pond and these particulates dislodge into a new home.

There are also some organisms that will survive the transmission through the digestive tract of waterfowl and other birds including possibly fish eggs.

The best answer with the most scientific evidence is that many aquatic animals and plants are able to lay dormant in dry conditions for long periods of time.  Even if the animals don't survive, often their eggs will survive.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: There are some aquatic animals (including fishes) that can breathe air or survive and move short distances on land. They can move to nearby water sources. Basically life finds a way.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: In Ottawa there is a park in the banks of the Rideau river with a small manmade pond/swimminghole that was constructed by enlarging and segregating a small run of the river with landfill in the early '60s. This pond sat on the floodplain of the river and would recieve new water only once every spring. It was eventually closed to swimming for health concerns as the ecosystem of the pond quickly accelerated towards total eutrophy. Fish caught in the pool or hatched from eggs laid on the floodplain in spring would not be able to reenter the river system and many fish would die in the pond; essox spp. were of special concern as they are important to the river's foodweb and spawning area on the banks is limited. Then two years ago, a rehabilitation project finally got underway at the pond. The pond was drained and the structure of the bed was altered to provide more complexity. They also installed a 26 meter long culvert to connect the downstream end of the pond back to the river. No one is extremely sure how well this will work, as ecological restoration is rarely assessed, and when it is assessed it often doesn't work as intended or not worth the money. This is definitely an extraordinary example but everyone is hoping that the restoration will improve spawning and foraging habitat and for the culvert to allow fishes to enter and exit the pond at will.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: A surprising vehicle for repopulation would be a good mesocyclone that spawned a tornado.  Tornadoes can move across water as waterspouts, and when they do, they sometimes pick up vast quantities of small fish and frogs and other biota and deposit it all miles and miles away from where it started.  I've seen this in action once in my life.  When I was about 9, I was visiting the farm of some cousins.  A big storm had gone through the night before, and all the large, deep hoofprints of the cows in the pasture were filled with water.  A cousin much younger than me was going from hoofprint to hoofprint, and plunging her hand into the water to come up with small catfish babies which she tossed into her bucket.  So I joined in, mainly to save as many of them as I could because her plans for them were not to let them survive.  I made many trips to the pond to empty my bucket that day, and I even snatch a few out of her bucket too.  There were so many out there that there was no way I could get them all, but I saved many hundreds of them.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Almost every organism inhabituating mentioned kinds of water ecosystems has developed an mechanism for surviving unfavorable conditions - actually, mostly it represents an obligatory stage in their life cycle. There are organisms that spend 99% of their life cycle as larvae!

For instance as mentioned in previous comments, aquatic animals lay eggs which are resistant to most of harmful enviroment effects, waiting for perfect timing to continue their individual development.

Most of algae form spores. Their variety is huge in terms of mobility, surface, size, shape, etc and is important for distinguishing the species. What is common for vast majority is that they usually have thick cell walls which are able to withstand the usual negative environment effects for that habitat.

Invertebrates usually form larvae.

Also worth mentioning is that some organisms survive by living inside or on the surface of other organisms. They can be parasites (they harm the organism tehy parasite in/on), commensals (one organism has benefit, but without affecting the host) and symbiont, where both organisms are dependant on each other.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: One important thing for biodiversity is that annually/semiannually drying ponds are *not* recolonized by fish. And if they are (via flooding or assisted by birds or other animals), they will only stay until the next dry phase. This allows many amphibians, zooplankton, and insects to specialize in these environments, which provide a relatively predator-free environment and opportunities to assume the role of top predator (salamander larvae are basically fish from a food web standpoint, and some aquatic beetles and their larvae are terrifyingly large and will eat tadpoles, fish, and salamanders). Some of those animals metamorphose  and become terrestrial-- like amphibians, beetles, dragonflies, flies and others-- like zooplankton have a drying-resistant egg stage that will spring to life during wetter times. Some fairy shrimp eggs aged at around 1000 years old have been hatched successfully after being extracted from deep down in old pond muck. Dormant adult/juvenile stages are more of a rarity, but do occur and make for some of the more spectacular feats of resilience seen in nature.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: As a lil dude we used to swim in a quarry that flooded. There's also a river nearby. So I see only as natural that we carried fish into the quarry, in buckets, over many summers.

Turns out the quarry didn't freeze through in the winter, so nowadays the lil man-made pond has a lot of little fishies in it. I guess that makes me their grand-father, sort of.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Ducks and geese travel from Lake to lake in search of food, mates,etc. Often times they will have fertilizes fish eggs on their feet and  underside feathers. They unwittingly deposit the eggs upon landing in the newly refreshed lake. No complicated answer needed here just science and simple observations from experience researchers who had the same questions.many years ago.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Water spouts can suck small amphibious creatures, larva, fish and their eggs out of a water source and suspend them in the clouds. They then get flushed down with the rain into other habitats if, their lucky. _URL_2_
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: It depends on the region. Birds play a big part most of time, but some places the fish literally walk (I'm not being an ass, they do). . . or rather, crawl/flop.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: Wondering this now where I'm from. It hasn't rained in over a month and it's almost bare here.
question: When ponds dry up and fish/other aquatic animals die, how does life return to the pond when it fills back up? answer: We call it "bucket biology", and the Fish and Wildlife Department gets really mad about that.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: I hate to be "that guy," but most commenters are missing the point. Society punishes drunk drivers because they do something dangerous after choosing to drink so much that it impairs them. They might beyond making good decisions at the time they choose to drive, but at some point they chose to get super drunk. With sex, we are not punishing the drunk person at all. We are punishing someone else for taking advantage of someone who is so drunk they cannot give consent. Source: I'm a criminal lawyer (and not in the sense that most lawyers are criminals :) )
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Legally speaking, drunk driving is a thing you do, drunk sex is a thing that happens to you.  When you're drunk, your car does not approach you and convince you to drive it, but when you're drunk a person can take advantage of that fact and have sex with you when you normally wouldn't have.  

In short, you create the situation where you drive drunk.  You drive somewhere, you get drunk, you get in the car.  All of these are you, and you alone.  You intentionally get drunk, and you are accepting the consequences of YOUR actions, you are not accepting the consequences of a different person's decisions.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Drunk people *are* able to make conscious sexual decisions...it is a myth they cannot.

*Incapacitated* people cannot.  The level of inebriation to get to that point far exceeds the legal standards for drunk driving.  Someone so drunk they can no longer consent to sex wouldn't be able to walk to a car, much less drive one.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: As a five year old, you know when Mummy says that it's time for a nap because you are tired, but you really don't want to? Well if you don't nap and then fall asleep whilst riding your bike and get a booboo, it's your fault because you know you should have slept.  
If you fall asleep and someone takes your bike from you while you are asleep, then that's not your fault. 

People shouldn't take your bike just because you aren't awake to say, "don't take my bike" or if you are talking in your sleep and mumble "sure, take it"
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: If you had to co-operate with a sober person to drive your car, then people would get pissed at the one that isn't drunk.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Ignore all these other idiotic reasons.

The real reason:

Drunk drivers cause accidents that society wants to prevent.
Historically, the only way to prevent people from drinking and driving is to punish them if they do so.

Its a solution to a problem.  Allowing people to avoid punishment with an excuse does not serve society, so that excuse is not allowed.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Very similar questions: Two consenting adults (m,f) have sex. Both equally drunk. The man can get charged with rape because the woman was drunk......why?  The man was just as drunk and just as unable to give consent, right?!
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: What you aren't pointing out is that women can't consent to sex when drunk.  Men on the other hand are completely responsible even if both the man and woman are drunk.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Both laws are punishing people who put others at risk, either by driving drunk or raping a drunk person.  Punishing a drunk rape victim is tantamount to punishing a sober driver who was hit by a drunk driver.  The drinking isn't the problem; the behavior that follows is.  

If you can't drink without driving intoxicated or raping someone, maybe don't drink.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: I don't know that either are "conscious" decisions, however, whether you do something consciously or not, the spirit of the law is to punish people for harming others, damaging property, or potentially endangering people. 

When you engage in drunk sex, if both parties afterwards think it was consensual, great! If not, the one who is seen as forcing sex on someone else is prosecuted. Whether the aggressor made that decision consciously or not he or she can have charges brought against him or her for hurting someone else. That decision may not have been a conscious decision, but he/she can be charged for it. 

 If someone is forced into sex that he/she didn't want, he/she is the victim and that person is not at fault because as the person who didn't want it he/she is not the one who hurt someone else. 

If you get into a car and drive drunk - whether you are able to make conscious decisions or not you are able to be charged because your actions have the potential to hurt people. 

If you are drunk and a passenger you are not charged because your decisions were not endangering people. 

Sometimes drunk people do force other drunk people to have sex. However, I don't know that drunk people force other drunk people to drive. You can be drunk and unresponsive and be raped. You can't really be drunk and unresponsive and forced to drive.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Wait.  Before you go down this path, what do you mean "If they were severely inebriated and they have sex then [...] they [...] are ultimately not at fault"

Of course they are at fault.  If you get drunk and then rape someone, you are still at fault for raping a person. 

The difference is consent versus responsibility.  If you are intoxicated, then you are not making good decisions.   In a state that you're not making good decisions, certain things aren't allowed.  In general, when you're not of sound mind, a contract that you enter into may be voidable. 

Consent for sex is essentially a contract.  It's saying "I give you permission to touch me in ways that I'm normally protected by law against." The problem is, if a person is intoxicated, that permission can be found void, because the person wasn't thinking properly.

On the other hand, when you drink and drive there's no parallel.  With sex, you have the ability to grant permission to other people to have sex with you, you are by default protected from people touching you inappropriately without your permission.  If you're intoxicated, it's possible that you wouldn't reasonably give permission, but weren't of sound mind. 

With driving drunk, you have no permission to drive on the road drunk.  There's nothing about being drunk that gives you the protected right to drive on the road drunk.  

There's nothing about being drunk that gives you special rights in sex either.  The only thing that being drunk can do is protect you from giving away the protections by the law unintentionally.  The law protects you from being touched sexually, drunk or sober.  You can grant permission, but if you're unable to make decisions, that permission might not count.  People can have sex with you only if they have permission, and if that permission doesn't count, they have hurt you.

It's a bit of a minefield to have a one-night stand with someone who is drunk.  You don't know if they are really giving consent, or if they are not.  You won't find out until they're sober.  If you don't know, then you don't do it. 

On the other hand, in a long term relationship, it's probably not such a big deal. You know the relationship, you know the person, you know what they're comfortable with, you know what's expected.  If you have had sex every night for the past year and get drunk and eagerly have sex together one night, it might be OK.  But even then, you don't know for certain.  Without being in the situation it's impossible to tell whether it's reasonable. 

But you don't get special protection from being drunk.  You just don't have the ability to be trusted to enter into contracts.  Since there's no contract involved in drunk driving, nothing changes.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Some of the difference is perception and the legal response to that perception.  Both sexual assault and drunk driving are consequences of abuse of alcohol.  How leaders have chosen to react to the different consequences of abuse is to a degree very much a matter of who is seen to have agency in the situation.

I got no horse in this game since when I was an alcoholic I was home based, but I've been around enough people in recovery to realize that public response to abuse is very varied and also very tied to how the abuse plays out for the individual.  I would personally love to see more people acquire a better understanding of the issue since it effects millions of people and the Be responsible mantra of the alcohol purveyors makes for a great first line of prevention but a really terrible response to addiction once that first line of defense fails.

EDIT:  When talking about varied responses, what I mean is that college campuses are a bubble that does not exactly reflect what is going on in the rest of the country.  Rape in poor areas are unlikely to be treated in the same manner to one on a college campus as one example of many.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: I've heard it explained like this: the law will not protect you from what you do to other people while you're drunk, but it will protect you from what other people do to you.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Differs from country to country, in England the reason is as follows:

Most crimes require two things to be proven - the mental and physical aspect. In the case of rape this is Unwanted Intercourse  &  Intention to do so. 

The law says, if you are drunk enough you are unable to form 'Intention' so unable to commit rape. 

Drink driving is one of a number of unique 'Strict Liability' crimes which require no intention. So as soon as the drunken person drives the crime is made out. 

(Note - ELI5 so simplified version)
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: This is typical stupid americans who think they understand law. 
Quoting the top commenter here: "drunk sex is something that happens to you". no, it is something you do, wether u would do it drunk or not makes no difference. If you become so drunk that you're nearly uncapable of saying no, then ofcourse it's rape. But being really drunk and then having sex is not something that is done to you, you're just being a drunk dumb slut(male or female). 

Sorry for my english, not my strong suite.

Edit: phrasing.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: It's a load of horse shit driven by the need for people to have an excuse for their actions instead of taking responsibility. I've been drunk enough times to know that being drunk doesn't make me incapable of making decisions. It just makes the inhibitions go away. There is no way anyone could convince me that you can't give consent if you're drunk.  
Yes mean yes.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Consent for sex isn't a question of fault, it is a question of a potential victim's capability. The difference is one example is looking at the victim and the other is looking at the perpetrator.

A proper analogy of the two would be if a rapist is drunk would they still be guilty. The answer is yes just like if they drove drunk.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: In the case of sexual assault the perpetrator cannot claim that they are not responsible because they are drunk, just like they cannot claim they are not responsible for driving drunk. The victim's are not responsible for what happens to them because of the actions of the perpetrator.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: As someone who works at a law firm that handles DUI and CSC cases regularly, the comments in this thread make me want to slam my head in a car door.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Because reddit is confused as to what "too drunk to consent to sex" really is.

That means passed out, can't say anything.  Being drunk, saying yes to sex, having sex and blacking out and forgetting about it later is not rape, no matter what reddit-lawyers think.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Legally speaking, you don't have to "consent" to anything to be convicted of a DUI.  At least in my state, there is no intent requirement.  All you have to do is : 1. be driving a car; and 2. be drunk.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: According to the military if you have sex with a woman when she is drunk, regardless if you are drunk as well, it is not consensual sex and therefor she could call rape.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: What are you even asking? You need to be more clear because 
 > if the common consensus is that if a person is severely inebriated and they have sex then it was not consensual or they weren't in the right state of mind and are ultimately not at fault.

makes no sense. If you're drunk and you rape somebody, you're still at fault. If you get raped, you're not at fault, whether or not you're drunk. If nobody is around to witness whether or not both parties are coherent enough to consent and one of them cries rape the next day, then there's obviously a problem and each situation is different.

Driving drunk is never excusable, so I really don't see how you're making the connection to drunk sex. Of course they were drunk and didn't know what they were doing when they got behind the wheel. That's the point. What's so hard to understand about that? Drunken sex isn't usually a hazard to public safety, unless you're trying to have drunken sex while driving.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Legally, drunk people are able to make conscious decisions about sex, up to a point. It's a grey area where that point lies, but it essentially revolves around their ability to function and think reasonably. Most people would see a buzzed person and realize they are fine to make  most decisions, but looking at a person who is smashed and having a hard time walking and picking up social cues, most people would realize they are not capable of reasonable decisions.

Driving while intoxicated isn't the same. Once you begin driving a car intoxicated, the law does not care about your ability to reasonably make a decision, it cares only about your capacity to safely operate a vehicle. That's key, because driving drunk puts yourself, other drivers, and pedestrians at greater risk. Given that operating a vehicle is a multitask function requiring attention, reaction, prediction, and combined physical tasks, any point of intoxication can reduce your ability to drive.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Because when you're coerced into having sex when you're drunk presumably someone in a clearer state of mind is taking advantage of your inebriated state of mind. When you're drunk and you decide to drive you're making the decision on your own, your car doesn't know you're drunk and can't make the right choice for you, and didn't try to talk you into driving it.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Listen sir, if I may even call you that, I happen to specialize in law as well, Bird Law mainly, and your response is unfortunately redundant. I think the better do smarts here of Reddit have made there point about drinking and driving. Point made, point made.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Just like every law ever made the severity is based on the society that makes it.

It is simply an expression that we feel drunk driving is worse then sexual misconduct.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Because people don't like getting killed by drunk drivers, but don't really care if a random dude they never met goes to jail.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: The person who decides to get drunk, by putting alcohol in their mouth, should make the decision not to drive before hand. Most people do make this decision, that is how they plan a way home (for example it is common to check that one friend is staying sober before you start drinking, or make a note of the last train home, or arrange to stay at a friend's place). While sober and making this decision some people will give their keys to someone sober or put them somewhere safe, just in case while under the influence of the alcohol they don't make sensible decisions (e.g. lose their keys or start driving - oh dear).

By contrast: A person who is raped or assaulted while drunk did not choose to have this done to them, so they did not make that decision while drunk or while sober. And it makes all the difference that an assault is a thing done to a person, not done by a person. The drunk person cannot be heald responsible for the actions of others (uhem, victim blaming?). 

A drunk person can make choices on how they act, and because they choose to get drunk they can plan ahead to not do certain things while drunk that they make an active choice over (for example arranging not to be at work while drunk, by doing some basic time planning). 

There is also a massive difference between choosing to do a thing and choosing not to do a thing.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: The way I learned this in 1L crim was that we draw lines for timing of decision making:  when did the criminally negligent or reckless behavior begin?  In the case of drunk driving, we have decided that the time when you decided to get shitfaced with your car keys in your pocket and no plans to stay the night was the time when you were criminally responsible.  In the case of drunken sex, the timeline is much, much shorter.  The person who gives consent is concurrently wasted, and so cannot legally consent.  In most states, if both parties drunkenly "consenting" to sex were past some point of inebriation, the male is in fact liable for his decision to have sex, and the female is a victim of assault or rape.  I believe that the unequal treatment of men and women on this issueability to consent/liability for sexual misconductis unconstitutional.  FWIW I'm a female type human.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Lawyer could explain better and with more authority, but here goes my answer.  

The difference is in whether or not a person intended to do something wrong. For most crimes, there needs to be some intent to do something wrong. Called by lawyers, mens rea. 

That is not the case with drunk driving. It is a "strict liability" type of crime, where there is no need to want to do something wrong. In these kinds of crimes, it does not matter a person's judgement is impaired. If you drive drunk, you are liable to be convicted for drink driving, even if you were so drunk you could not form the intent to drive drunk. 

Here's a lawyer explaining mens rea and actus reus:  _URL_0_
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: The issue is simply impairment.  You have no right to drive with this particular kind of impairment *because* it damages your ability to properly reason.  As such, we've set up laws banning the behavior in order to discourage it.

With sex, it is the *exact same thing*.  When someone is impaired their ability to properly consent is damaged.  As such, we've set up laws that create a framework to ban the behavior in order to discourage it.

You've framed the question illegitimately, whether you meant to or not.  These laws are passed with a goal of encouraging or discouraging certain behaviors regarding drunken impairment.  Your complicated questions of ethics and morality aren't actually relevant.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: UK Law student here. Not certain about US but over here the act of getting intoxicated is classed as reckless, which can constitute the mental element of most crimes, notable exceptions being murder. You get drunk knowing that you have the ability to drive, since you have your car keys, and could walk there easily, etc. Therefore you can be held responsible. 

For something like sex, it's very unlikely you are aware before drinking that sex is a potential outcome. Most people would never imagine sleeping with someone randomly that they wouldn't do normally. The key difference is which act is foreseeable. Driving is, while sex is not.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: This has no bearing on law in the US.  IN EVERY state of the US, drunken consent constitutes *legal* consent.  Just like drunk driving.  

Feminists however, have switched the *social* burden of guilt for drunken sex in some younger circles.  But that has nothing to do with the law.  

You don't have to take my word for it.  This link has the sexual assault laws, verbatim, for every state.

_URL_1_

This may differ in your country, but in the US drunken consent STILL means legal consent.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Because one is a measure to protect people from being exploited by predators and the others is a measure to punish people for making bad choices that affect others. If you're gonna get drunk off your ass, don't fucking drive wherever it is you're planning on getting sloshed. Also, if you're doing it at home, make sure to hide your keys or give them to someone for safe-keeping. Or you try not to be a selfish dickward whenever you get drunk.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Their was a rape case a few years back where the woman claimed she was too drunk to consent. Security cam footage showed that after the act I'm question she walked over to, and purchased a burrito from a food truck. She then consumed the burrito with no issues. Needless to say the judge ruled that if you can engage in commerce, you are not too drunk to consent.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: DWI is not a conscious decision. In fact in most jurisdictions the offense of DWI does not require a conscious mental state. Most criminal statutes require that a person have a certain mental component such as knowingly, intentionally, negligently, etc. DWI generally does not have this. In my jurisdiction the mens rea is specifically excluded by statute and the defense of involuntary intoxication is not available.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: So I recently got a TAPS card and couldn't believe that amount of liability liquor stores and bars have for serving people who then later injure others. I think I kind of support this now tho!!
We still punish the shit out of drunk drivers, but at least we are punishing the shit out of other people who were responsible for their reduced inhibitions.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: You are still responsible for the damage you do while you were drunk, but people who take advantage of you while you are drunk are responsible for that as well.  The basic issue is one of practicality not logic.  Drunk driving and sexual abuse of drunk women are both problems in our society and we have laws against them
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Because if you drive to a party, where you know you will be drinking, you are knowingly putting yourself in a situation where your judgement will be compromised, and you will have easy access to your car to drive home in that compromised state.
question: Why are drunk people not able to make conscious sexual decisions but DWI is a conscious decision? answer: Because how else are women supposed to get people arrested for having consensual sex that they regret the morning after?
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: The video most likely is not sufficient evidence. The video shows what appears to be the smoking of crack but without supporting evidence such as the pipe with residue on it, witnesses who were present, the video itself is of little evidentiary value.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: There is no way whatsoever to remove a sitting Toronto mayor (well, that's not quite true, see below).  Neither the city council, the provicinial government, or anything like that have any power to do this.  There is no impeachment or recall mechanism.  This isn't the US.

The only exception at all is the municipal conflict of interest act, which doesn't really cover anything he has allegedly done in this video scandal.  That allows (requires really) a court to remove an incumbent if found guilty of certain forms of conflict of interest. This was already tried on another unrelated matter anyhow, and it failed.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: The only province or territory in Canada that allows for recall elections based on a voter petition is British Columbia. As Toronto is in the province of Ontario, there is no way to remove Rob Ford from office - unless he is convicted of a criminal offence. The Municipal Act requires that an individual wishing to hold office be qualified to be a voter, and the Municipal Elections Act says anyone who is incarcerated cannot be a voter in a municipal election. Police Chief Bill Blair, who has seen the video, has stated that there is nothing in the video file to warrant charges against the mayor. This probably means there is not enough evidence in the video to prove it is crack cocaine he is smoking. This is currently Ford's lawyer's argument, as he has stated the video cannot prove he is not smoking tobacco, which is technically true despite the fact that no one would smoke tobacco out of a crack pipe. The reason the video's existence is known is because it was obtained as part of an investigation into Alexander Lisi, Rob Ford's friend and alleged personal drug dealer, and has been entered into evidence to support the charge of extortion.

TL;DR: The video wasn't recovered to charge Rob Ford, it was recovered to charge his friend Alexander Lisi with extortion. Ford is technically just collateral damage.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: And did you know if you were caught and you were smokin' crack  
McDonalds wouldn't even want to take you back  
You could always just run for mayor of D.C.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Hamiltonian here. 

I live in Hamilton, which is a city an hour west of Toronto and commute to school in Toronto. I also worked in Toronto for a not-for-profit doing sandwich runs for the homeless, and was present in Toronto during the G20 summit/riots of 2010 and Rob Ford's election. I know a bit about Rob Ford. 

I remember when he was elected, myself and all my friends were not happy and supportive because his demographic was targeted towards parts of the GTA not connected to the downtown core (which is OKAY! everyone is entitled to their opinion) but this made us nervous because we knew his constituency wouldn't be concerned with problems concerning the marginalized, mainly.

While he has served as mayor, he has waged a "battle" against cyclists, trying to remove bike lanes, saying that cyclists are a "pain in the ass to motorists" (see [here](_URL_1_) or [here](_URL_2_)) he has also said racists comments about members of city council and people from an Asian demographic (see [here](_URL_0_) ) he has also used city council letterhead to solicit money from lobbyists to support his football charity foundation. This was the matter referenced in u/doc_daneeka 's comment regarding the "conflict of interest that was dropped" (see [here](_URL_3_) ) 

The crack scandal is the top of the pile. This scandal caused a tremendous deal of damage to the Somali community of North Toronto (as it became connected to them) and was humiliating for the rest of us in the GTA. What happened was that in May, the news website gawker alleged that they had seen a cellphone video from some drug dealers in Toronto of Rob Ford smoking crack, and were selling the video. The Toronto Star also verified that they were approached with the offer to buy the video, and confirmed they saw it. Gawker used a very public crowd funding campaign to raise the money to buy the video, and were successful at doing so, but the video, and the owners, went into hiding, and gawker, as they promised, donated the money to a number of charities supporting helping people with addictions, and helping members of the Somali community in Toronto. 

Rob Ford denied the existence of the video, and now the police have found it. Ford's lawyer is now asking police to release the video on the defense that Ford could be smoking "anything" - tobacco, marijuana, etc. and that the video can't prove that he's smoking crack. This is unfortunate. He has brought public humiliation to the corner of the world I live in, and he's a horrible mayor that doesn't care about the marginalized, is racist, and doesn't care about taking action to create environmental reform, especially in a city that (believe me!) is a nightmare to drive in, any hour of the day. The only way he can be removed is if he is convicted of a criminal offense. (which I have mixed hopes about, given the lawyer's shoddy defense... however I remain hopeful that the Toronto Police Service have more evidence to offer than one video) Otherwise what will happen is that *hopefully* he'll finally be voted out in the 2014 municipal elections and we can be rid of this nightmare once and for all.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Two main reasons:

First, the video shows Ford, impaired, smoking from a "glass pipe of the sort used to smoke crack cocaine." While surrounded by people known to the police for crack-related activities, in a known crack house. That is not enough evidence to charge him with a crime, as, while it may be inferred that he was smoking crack, there is reasonable doubt that it could be any other smoke-able substance in the pipe, including tobacco. This means that the video by itself is not sufficient evidence to lay any charges.

Second, it is really hard to get rid of a Toronto mayor. The premier can hold a vote in the provincial parliament to remove them if, and only if, they are convicted of a crime. Ford has not, at this point, even been charged. The second way is if he skips 60 days of council meetings in a row. The third way is if the mayor is convicted of breaching the Municipal Conflict of Interest Act, for which the punishment is immediate removal from office.

It should be noted that Ford was convicted of breaching the MCIA, and ordered to step aside, but that order was stayed pending appeal, and Ford won the appeal and was allowed to remain in office. The MCIA is also extremely vaguely worded, and widely regarded as an ineffective piece of legislation.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: It would be a real violation of democracy to remove Rob Ford. I know a lot of people hate him, but he isn't a dictator. He was voted into office and should leave office in a democratic way. And the video is not enough to prove anything. He could have been smoking weed, or tobacco.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Because it is likely being saved for when shit blows up even further with Stephen Harper and Co.  

Shit will get worse for Harper. When that happens Rob Ford will be the flagship headline again. People will all of a sudden forget about our Prime Minister and his shady buddies and keep raising shit about Ford while the magicians in parliament continue to fuck us and keep us distracted with smoke-screens.

My fellow Canadians, we mustn't let this happen. Stay focused.

 Rob Ford needs the help to bring him back from the void, sure. 

As for Canada? Perhaps we need a new Prime-Minister? This business goes deeper than we can imagine. What goes on with our PM is far more important than this business of a mayor with a drug habit.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Let me first say that I am not defending Ford in any way, and I wish this loser had never been elected mayor, but it's impossible to prove that he was smoking crack in the video, and therefore, they can't charge him with any crime, or impeach him for it.

I know he was smoking crack, you know he was smoking crack, but the law can't prove it, and for now he's a free man.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Ford is the gift that keeps on giving
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Can I just say how frustrating it is that this is what put Toronto into the minds of the globe? We're a damn good city and fuck our mayor for shitting on our image. David Miller, the previous mayor, was incredible and is now the president of WWF Canada. Ford might lead a crew in prison or introduce fucking IHOPs at best.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: My understanding is that if city council meetings fail to meet quorum for 60 days the province can declare the mayor's seat vacant. So it would seem that if the councillors want him gone, they have to stop attending meetings for some time. I can't find reference for this but I did read it somewhere.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: There's not enough evidence. They have the video which shows him smoking but despite all the circumstantial evidence such as the type of bong he's using, how he's acting and if the places he's at is known for crack cocaine activity, they can't really charge him with possession of crack just from the video. So technically the video can't be used as proof that he smokes crack. Only way he could get impeached is if he's found with drugs on him, in his house or maybe (not sure if this is acceptable in Toronto) a drug test. Sucks because until there's substantial evidence this crack head is here to stay. He's even said he sees no reason to resign as it's just a video
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Does Toronto dominate reddit or something? I didn't think this story was popular enough for frontpage eli5.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Wow, if Rob Ford gets reelected, then most Torontonians are fucked up people.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Toronto has no impeachment mechanism, so Rob Ford would need to be convicted of criminal charges.  There is likely a lack of evidence for the Crown prosecutor to proceed with such charges.  People who are saying that the law is being applied to him differently because of his position are full of shit.  It's highly unlikely any Crown prosecutor anywhere in Canada would proceed with a simple possession charge (which they usually barely care about to begin with) on the basis of only a video.  If they did I imagine it would only be as a tactic to get you to cooperate in providing information to police about where you acquired the drugs in the first place.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: according to police and video evidence he was at a known crack house.that he has not disputed( his lawyer via am 640 radio), am also  surprised nobody has mentioned his association with known gang members.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: it's worth noting that his approval rating is up after all this. as it stands now, it's likely he'll be re-elected next year.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: At least in Ontario, the only way a  be removed is if they are convicted and jailed. 

Source: _URL_4_
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: There's no rule that says the mayor of Toronto can't smoke crack every now and then.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: I WANT TO SEE THE VIDEO SO BAD!
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: Ask yourself these questions:

* How do we KNOW it's Rob Ford?

* How do we KNOW what he's smoking is crack?

* How do we know when it happened?

* How do we know where it happened?

If you can't prove all of those points, then you have no evidence. Points 3 and 4 may seem trivial (they're often not) but points 1 and in particular 2 could be really difficult to prove.

Despite popular opinion being very different, having footage of something happening is a LONG way away from proving a criminal offence.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: What's ironic is that his father was an excellent man and politician that did a great deal of good because he was tenacious as well as consensus building. He also built a significant business that rob and his brother have inherited.

Big shoes to fill. Personally I think this is part of his issue. He can't handle the stress and this has metamorphosed into all his addiction issues.

Drugs are one, alcohol another
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: I see your point but I think public opinion will hopefully carry some weight as I think people of Toronto are basically sick of the shenanigans. They will demand the ability to remove someone who isn't performing or who has become a distraction. In the end tho you're probably right and nothing will come of it
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: To follow up on doc_daneeka 's explanation... Ford being unable to be removed as mayor is the reason that Toronto newspapers and citizens are calling for him to resign. They know that it is highly unlikely that he will be removed from his position, so they want him to step down as mayor on his own.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: The provincial government cannot removed Rob Ford from office unless he is proven guilty of the crime. He has the right to a fair trial, so only if he is proven guilty he can be removed. Nothing until a trial unless he steps down, which I doubt he will.
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: I find it kind of funny that we're supposed to be a democratic government and have the freedom to decide our government but as soon as someone gains that leadership you can't get rid of them..
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: question: If i was on camera smoking crack or other illegal drugs, not dealing just using, and the police saw it, can i be hunted down and arrested?
question: Why can't Rob Ford be impeached if 'the video' is in police hands? answer: I'm surprised this is front page material. Go Toronto :)
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Dolphins have been documented killing themselves on many occasions. Unlike humans, dolphins have to consciously take every breath. As a human, if you try to hold your breath, there's an instinctive reaction that will eventually force you to breath. Dolphins don't have this. They'll swim down and just slowly nod off as their brain loses oxygen. The man who made the series Flipper is on record saying that one of the dolphins used on the show swam into his arms, looked him in the eyes, and then stopped breathing and died there. It caused him to rethink everything he did and made making Flipper one of his biggest life regrets. He went on to make a documentary called The Cove. It's about an annual dolphin slaughter in Japan. It's really really good.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: From Psychology Today: [Chinese media has reported that a captive bear on a Chinese bear farm killed her son and then herself after she heard him cry out in pain when a catheter was jammed into his abdomen so that bile could be extracted from his gallbladder for human medicinal purposes. Around 14,000 bears are kept in horrific conditions and routinely tortured on Chinese bear farms. In this case "a mother bear reportedly broke free after hearing her cub's cry, causing 'farmers' to run away in fear. She then ran to the cub's side and immediately smothered it, then ran headlong into a wall and killed herself instantly](_URL_0_)


Edit: I'm seeing a lot of comments from people rightfully horrified by the medicinal practice mentioned in the article. I would like us to keep in mind that "we're" viewing "their" actions and behaviors from a Western viewpoint, which is incredibly problematic. It's not necessarily a case of civility and development as some have suggested, but traditional culture. Westerners do some horrific things as well, which I suspect would receive equally horrified responses from readers. I did not post the original comment/link to article to demonstrate the cruelty visited upon animals in China or to demonize Chinese peoples and practices carried out by a small fraction of the population. My intention was to provide an answer to the OP and bring attention to the fact that these practices do exist. One must only look to our own beef/chicken/whathaveyou production to feel sickened at how "we" treat our own animals. Let's not turn this into and us/them discussion, but work toward ending practices that involve incredible cruelty worldwide. 

Edit 2: As I replied to another poster: "it doesn't make the practice 'less fucked up.' I felt the need to add the edit due to some truly polarizing and ethnocentric comments that don't contribute to the actual conversation."
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Sick or injured animals that live in social settings will sometimes purposely isolate themselves and expose themselves to predators.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Not directly the same, but, Impala are one of the few animals which will give themselves an abortion. If a pregnant female senses a drought she will eat poison berries to abort the calf. They have an excellent instinct for whether or not they can care for their offspring


*take note, society*
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Penguins have also been known to commit suicide.

_URL_1_

On a personal note: we had only two swans in our entire town among the ducks and geese, they were iconic in our little Podunk nowhere. They groomed one another, would pose for cameras and feed from crumbs given to them. (Really well behaved for animals that have been known to attack sometimes)

One year everything changed, a rogue male appeared from seemingly no where; this resulted in the female leaving her mate for this newcomer. Anyone who says animals don't experience depression never met the lonely mate. He stopped eating, his feathers became dingy, some missing and he would only float atop the water in a nasty little ditch next to the Chinese restaurant. It wasn't long before he was found dead, presumably from hunger.

This came as a huge shock to me as a child, I had no idea at the time that animals that were supposedly "mate for life" could do anything but, and nor did I grasp that he successfully committed suicide until a few years later when I could reflect in some obtained maturity. It was horribly depressing watching that unfold and realizing that animals face pain similarly to what we do.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Animals do commit suicide. Most notably dolphins, but horses have been documented jumping off cliffs when in excruciating pain.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I was reading about a kangaroo whose joey fell off a cliff and died. She paced back and forth for a long time, very distraught, and eventually jumped. Hard to say if it was a suicide or she wanted after her baby.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: A few years back my childhood dog passed away, she was getting very old and had a limited time left. 

I didn't know this till a few months ago, but the day she passed my mom was in the kitchen, watching the dog walk around the backyard like she did every day. Due to her health, she hadn't gone swimming in a couple years; she had fallen in a few times, but it was very apparent she couldn't swim anymore. She did everything she could to avoid the water. But on that day, my mom said she watched her calmly walk into the pool by the steps, swim out a few feet, and sank without a twitch or struggle.

I believe that she was in so much pain, she knew it was her time to go. She decided to do so peacefully in the water that she loved so dearly when she was a pup.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: When a crow is close to death it will stand in the middle of the road and wait to be run over. I have seen this maybe 6 or 7 times in my life
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I saw a wasp commit suicide once. 

It flew into my apartment through the balcony and got stuck inside. I put a drinking glass on top of it in an attempted to transport him outside. 

Well, Waspy was having none of that apparently because he ran around his glass enclosure for a few seconds and then, realising that he was trapped, sat down grabbed his abdomen and committed sudoku with his own stinger. It took him a few tries but he got there in the end.

rip waspy. death before dishonour.

I was shocked and fascinated so I did some research. Although I could find barely any information about this phenomenon, apparently [it's a thing](_URL_2_)
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: My dad was a shepherd.  50-70's.  He told me that when his sheep dogs were spent, they knew it.  As did he.  And they would be allowed into the house for the second time (since being pups) and they would die at his feet in front of the fire.  Apparently, it would be a sort of ritual, always after the hard days work... the older dog always knew, time was ticking - a replacement had been under it's wing for a time.  I thought I had a pet once, who went to work with my dad.  When he came come the last time he and my father were silent.  Plodding.  Affectionate. I thought he was a pet.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: On a similar note, some animals do get depressed, like humans do. It is hypothesized that taking time away from social encounters helps the animal figure out how to recover from a social misstep that it has made to later successfully rejoin the social group. This is most notable in bonobos and chimpanzees
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Google "bear bile farms".  Apparently it's a thing in China, and it's not uncommon for the bears to try to kill themselves.

Fucking china...
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Friend of mine was driving along one day and saw a rabbit sat in the middle of the road. It didn't move when he approached so he stopped. Rabbit still didn't move. He got out, picked it up and moved it. By the time he got back in his car it had gone back to the road right in front of him. He moved it again, it went back again. Eventually he noticed it wasn't looking too bright so he picked it up and took it to the local animal shelter. They diagnosed it with myxomatosis and said it was likely trying to kill itself. I just googled "rabbit myxomatosis suicide" and [found this](_URL_4_). I also [found this](_URL_3_) but it may not be relevant.

edit: links are *not* images and are SFW.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Pigs in slaugtherhouses have been known to run themselves into walls due to lack of stimulation and you know, the fact that they're in a slaughterhouse
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Here is a bizarre example: An insect that is infected with parasites trying to kill itself and thus kill the parasites also. The writer theorizes the insect is sacrificing itself to save others. (Note: This isn't proven, just probable)
Warning: Link has some nasty pictures.
_URL_5_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I had a friend in college who worked at a commercial turkey farm. He said that sometimes the hens would attempt to lay an egg and in the process have what the workers called a "blowout." Basically the internal reproductive organs would be forced out of the body along with the egg, causing presumably a lot of pain for the bird. On more than one occasion, my friend observed the bird running intentionally into the electrified fence that bordered the enclosure after suffering one of these "blowouts", killing themselves in the process. A terrible thing to consider but I always found it curious that they would know the quickest way to end their lives in this situation.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: There is some bridge out there (Cant remember where exactly) from where dogs jump to the empty, there is a case i remember of a dog surviving the fall, recover and jump again

Edit.
Here its the link to a story of the bridge and the actual name
_URL_6_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: In the documentary blackfish an orca was said to repeatedly smash its head into the side of its enclosure, effectively commiting suicide.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Because it is defined as an intentional act, suicide depends on a strong sense of life and death. It's hard to have a deep and elaborate concept of death without things like stories, pictures, written language, and so on. In other words, if we want to act intentionally, then we have to have the conceptual tools to do so. 

That said, there is nothing **essentially** human about suicide. We simply can't understand an animal's intentions because we are humans. Even if we think a dolphin committed suicide, this is an anthropomorphization because we cannot know (explicitly) about dolphin intentions.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I worked in an animal shelter as a volunteer when I was a kid. It was pretty cool but hard work and I used to get stomped by horses and chased by dogs. One day we got two awesome goats called Bill and Ben. I used to feed them and clean their enclosure. One night they climbed on top of their shed and put their horns through the mesh enclosure. They kicked the shed away and hung themselves. I'm pretty sure it was a series of unfortunate events but sometimes I wonder whether they'd just decided that the Shelter life wasn't for them.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: My dog got cancer and lost the use of his back legs, He would drag himself around but ended up giving up and he stopped eating and everything. We pretty much force fed him, but you could tell he was so depressed. We would leave the door open because we weren't worried about him running out, you know, because of his legs. He ended up dragging himself into a canal out back and pulled himself in there :( some girls found him and pulled him out. We put him so sleep soon after, it was just so sad.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I'm not sure about all animals but my dad gave my grandmother a dog one time that committed suicide. A real mean dog. Hated everyone. However as soon as he saw my grandma he sat by her side and that was it. 

About seven years later Grandma Edith died and the next day he ran into traffic.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: depends on the animal. pilot whales commit suicide by beaching themselves and some other types of dolphins do as well.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Is this thread trying to win the most depressing thread in the universe award, or what?
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Animals do commit suicide. How they do it really depends on the species and the situation. Many species simply give up eating (like felines) or allow themselves to be eaten by something else (sometimes to protect their young). Dogs and ducks have been known to intentionally drown themselves. Cows, deer, and sheep are known to intentionally go off cliffs/bluffs. Whales are known to intentionally beach themselves, and dolphins are known to do that or just stop breathing.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I remember reading about over worked horses jumping off cliffs while hauling loads during the gold rush.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: TIL suicide is not a human unique thing... And swans can be gay?
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: If you would do some google searches you would find that your claim is actually untrue.  There have been instances of dolphins deciding to stop breathing because they are in such duress about their situation.  It's incredible the way we treat animals, just because they can't program a computer, or drive a car, that means they are lower than us.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: My physics teacher told me about a rabbit that jumped off a 80 foot ledge when he was in college
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Probably going to get buried, but a Border Collie I had growing up was 16 years old and full of cancer. Doctor said that we could either go through all the expensive treatments and extend her life for maybe a year, or he could give her some really good drugs that would greatly ease her pain, but would only work for a week, at which point we would have to bring her in to be put down. We picked the latter. 

After a week of her acting almost like a puppy again, she had taken a turn for the worse. On the Monday, we scheduled her to be put down the following Wednesday, but later that night I found her laying under a thin blanket of Alberta snowfall. Of course I thought that she had died, so I went to pick her up. To my surprise she was still alive, though it is likely she wouldn't have been for very much longer if she stayed there. To this day I am convinced that she was trying to end it all. I suddenly decided that I didn't want to see her in pain anymore, so I took her to the emergency vet that night and had her put down.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: OP asks why animals don't snuff it.  Reddit, true to form, responds with rare exceptions of animals doing themselves in.  I'll explain it for you though.  Animals, don't have crippling debt, failed marriages, social anxiety from not fitting in with their peers, animals don't really care if other animals are gay or don't think or feel the same way they do.  They just go around doing animal shit.  However, sometimes, some of them do kill themselves.  Probably not for the same reasons as people, and probably not at the same rate.  No, I don't have any fucking sources.  Finish your apple sauce.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: They do.  The first wild caught giant rattlesnake that was put on display at the Big Texan Steak Ranch went into depression. it stopped eating and tried to befriend the mice and baby chicks that it was fed. One day when I was flirting with the gift shop girl a kid came up and said "somethings wrong with the snake it's not moving" and i was like "it never moves".. i looked over and the snake was bleeding.with a fang broke off in its mid section... turns out it bit it's self. We  shipped the nake off to Texas Tech and they did a autopsy and ruled it the first documented case of a western diamondback rattlesnake purposesly commiting suicide....this mentally messed with me as this was a 5'+ snake that lived his life in the wild and was caught and put in a small aquarium and clearly was depressed...This was the day I relized all animals have feelings, the snakes name was George.. R.I.P. George
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: After mating, male Leopard Geckos starve themselves to death so the female can have all available resources.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Animals do commit suicide. Suicide is not a uniquely human experience, nor uniquely mammalian.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Late to the thread like always but last year my aunt's 15 year old dog started (for no reason at all) going into the pool. It's never done this up until then.

My cousin who witnessed this depressing act said that the dog didn't even struggle as it sank, and that he was creeped out by how still the dog was. Just imagine a dog slowly sinking to the bottom of a pool not even budging, just standing on all fours underwater and you'll be able to imagine how this would be an odd sight.

Eventually they all just let her make her own decision and left the doggy door open for her one night... The very next morning they found her dead in the pool. 

Some sad shit for sure.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Tarsiers (like a really small monkey) which is found in the philippines does not do well in captivity.  They are very shy, nervous and gets stressed due to many activities related to captivity (camera flashes, touching, closed enclosure). Such stress leads to the tarsier hitting its head against objects, thus killing it because of its thin skull.  Source: _URL_7_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I'm surprised no one has said lemmings. [Not actually suicide, but it was a common myth to think it](_URL_8_).
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I don't know if it classifies as suicide, but I'll tell you about how our cat died. He was old, 15 years, and deaf, but as far as I know otherwise healthy. He stopped drinking water and eating, and a few days after having stayed in his favorite spot in the sofa, he went, on wobbly legs, to his favorite spot in the sun where he died. He was the sweetest cat ever, and he was probably just sick in some way, but we figured he was tired and just did not want to keep on any more.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: A lot of animals are well known to commit suicide. A lot of new parrot owners may find themselves being instructed not to leave their bird alone. If you end up in a situation where your parrot is alone a lot, it could start self harming or commit suicide from loneliness. It may be recommended to purchase two birds for some species.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Not sure if anyone has commented about this yet or not, but I've heard of dolphins committing suicide. There was a trainer that, while teaching the dolphin English, developed a romantic relationship with the dolphin. When the project was stopped because of this relationship, the dolphin committed suicide by sinking to the bottom of the tank and refusing to breathe.

_URL_9_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Since this thread is seriously fucking depressing, here's a gif of very happy, definitely not committing suicide puppies eating watermelon.

_URL_10_

And for more, check out /r/eyebleach
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Not sure where you got this idea OP but they do in fact do so. Just not all of them or to the same extent.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: They definitely do. I've personally seen three different animals (Cat, Dog, and Pig) just flat out stop eating when their time was ticking down.

My cat had severe liver failure (we didn't find out until after his death), and I had started to notice he was eating less and less. He had always been kind of picky about food, so I swapped out the "flavor," thinking he was just sick of "Salmon and Veggies." By the fifth day, his food was completely untouched. We made plans to take him to the vet in the morning, but by then, he was gone. Found him lying peacefully in his favorite spot beneath the guest bed.

My grandma's Dog (a Chow-Retriever mix) had a slipped disc and lost the use of his back legs. He needed to be carried outside to do his business, and held up by straps. Surgery was attempted, but he never got full use of his legs back. In pain from his recovery, and still unable to so much as poo on his own, I think he just decided he was done. He stopped eating too. When my grandma would put the food down for him and beg him to eat, he would just look at her with sad eyes and ignore the bowl. After the second meal he refused, she made arrangements to have him put down. He was put to sleep next to his best buddy Jake and his human in his bed on his favorite blanket. 

The third one is especially sad because it was so preventable. In high school, I was part of the agricultural class. I chose to raise a pig to auction off at the county fair as my project for the year. I loved that cute little pig. Baby was her name, because she was the runt of the 3 pigs chosen by members of my class. They all came from the same farm. All is going fine. The pigs are happy and (seemingly) healthy, growing every day. All of a sudden, out of absolutely nowhere, the pigs started getting sick. Loose stool, and not eating well. I wanted to call in a vet, but the teacher (who was not qualified for the job she was doing) refused, saying maybe they just need different, better, feed. 

Hundreds of dollars in expensive feed, useless medications, worm treatments, and a few weeks later, both of the other pigs have dropped dead. Mine is getting so weak I'm literally force-feeding her yogurt and and water to keep her alive. The teacher FINALLY listens to me (up until this point she had claimed that the school district wouldn't allow a vet on campus because...insurance? Being 15 years old, I didn't know better) and has a stool sample sent to a lab to be tested. Too little too late. My little Baby started refusing her food, snapping at me with what little strength she had left when I tried to press the turkey baster between her teeth, and regurgitating what little I got down. I skipped all my classes on a Monday morning and sat, alone in the mud, watching her die in front of my eyes. She died of starvation before she died of the infection she and her siblings brought with them. The name of the infection is lost to me at this time, but I remember being told that one shot when the symptoms started would have cured her and her brothers.

RIP Baby. I'm sorry you suffered.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Pretty sure I've seen a duck commit suicide.

I was driving down a road and when I reached the top of a hill, a duck walked out in front of my car. I hit the brakes and stopped fairly close to the duck - it didn't budge. I honked several times, rolled down my window to yell at it - still didn't budge. The whole time this duck is just staring at me. Then suddenly it looks the other way. Then back at me. Then back the other way. Then right as a bus comes over the top of the hill from the other direction, it flies straight into the front of the bus. Feathers fly everywhere, I scream, and I look through the bus windows to see several elementary school-aged children also screaming.

Certain animals know what can kill them. I don't see why some of those animals wouldn't then have the capacity to decide to kill themselves on purpose.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: We once had rats in the house and used food poison. It supposedly dries them out from the inside. One morning I saw a rat in the bathroom repeatedly jumping from a height head first. After bonking his head against the wall for a while. Eventually he slowly died laying on a piece of washcloth. It was such a depressing sight I wanted to put the little fella out of his misery but was young and didn't know how besides hitting him with a shovel. And this kids is why u shouldn't use rat poison.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: My brother was doing a school project on if magnetic fields could deter frogs from staying in streets to be road kill. One jumped so hard into the glass wall of their cage that he split himself in half. The worst smell imaginable followed.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I used to work for a dog daycare/boarding facility. We had one dog who loathed being there so much, we were sure she was trying to strange herself with her food tray. We've had to remove the tray from her head and neck several times, and her face has permanent scarring from her self-inflicted wounds. She's doing much better now, and we made great strides to remove anything dangerous from her room and the food tray. But with the thousands of dogs I have had under my care, she was the only one to do such a thing. I tried to befriend her and get her used to my presence whenever I took her out for playtime (which happened very frequently) and I think that helped calm her a bit. She's very sweet. She's one of the dogs I miss most from that job. I hope Indy is doing well....
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: [These cute little guys, known as Tarsiers,](_URL_12_) have been documented killing themselves because people stress them out too much.

 > People go near and theyre loud, or make a picture with the flash, or theyre touching them. Most of those tarsiers, when they become stressed they commit suicide  If you put them in a cage they want to go out. Thats why they bump their heads on the cage, and it will crack because the cranium is so thin. 
_URL_11_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: This is more of an anecdotal story than a fact. I cannot confirm it.

My grandma told me that when she was a kid she trapped a scorpion in a circle of twigs and set the circle on fire so as to trap the scorpion in the fire ring. The scorpion, after trying to escape for a while and backing away from the flames in fear, eventually stabbed itself in the back and died of its own poison.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I will be downvoted to oblivion, but what the hell. 

In nature, many newborns that have an issue are just discarded or abandoned right away.  Even issues that aren't detectable by sight are often instinctively known by animals. 

Take Knut for example.  He was abandoned by his mother, yet taken in by humans, and put in a zoo.  Where he died (drowned) after suffering some sort of brain issue that was thought to be generic in nature.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Elephants have been known to commit suicide, as well as dolphins. In captivity, there have been cases when elephants will step on their own trunks to cut off their air supply. Their conditions are so deplorable in places like Thailand where they're used for manual labor that there are cases in which they kill themselves to end the suffering.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Deer attempt suicide everyday in North Carolina. They wait for a moving vehicle and walk into the road and stop right before it's too late for them to swerve or stop.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Im surprised no one has mentioned the highest profile case I can think of , think it happened in the uk maybe??

warning NSFW  [actual animals suicide photo](_URL_13_)
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: i don't know man but when i am driving it sometimes seems that bird purposefully fly infront/under my tires...
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Tarsiers here have been known to drown themselves in buckets of water due to flash photography or insomnia.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Florida Sea World, a male Orca named Hugo committed suicide by bashing his head against a wall. 

_URL_14_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Penguins have been known to go insane and [commit suicide](_URL_15_)
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Without seeming like I'm totally ignoring the question (I am), it presents an interesting philosophical conundrum. Let's approach it from the other side: why do only humans commit suicide? One could speculate that it's because humans are the only animals with the cognitive capacity to reflect on what it means to live and to question whether or not its worth it; essentially, being able to examine one's life, weigh the benefits versus the challenges and make the choice to self-terminate. 

Let's see if I remember Phil101 correctly. Camus, in The Myth Of Sisyphus, attempted to answer what he saw as the single most important question of existentialism: suicide. 

Proceeding from the observation that life as we live it is absurd--that is, we live as though each day doesn't bring us closer to the certainty of death, and premise our lives on our hopes for the future (though that future is only guaranteed to bring our own death, with all else un-fucking-assured). Camus, ever the compassionate observer, notes that it's not the world that's absurd (this is impossible, for the world simply is, and has no intent), nor our thoughts. Our thoughts are rational attempts to create meaning from nothingness and randomness. Absurdity results when we attempt to make sense of the senselessness and randomness (Camus calls it "unreasonableness") that is our world. This is when our desire for certainty runs into the brick wall of the utter futility of attempting to "reducing the world to a rational and reasonable principle". 

If life is a meaningless attempt to discern certainty in a cruel and meaningless universe, why the hell wouldn't somebody commit suicide? This was, for Camus, the single most important question in philosophy: how do we decide whether or not life is worth living?

Camus ultimately rejects suicide, arguing that without man, the absurd would cease to exist. This is a logical impossibility for anybody willing to take the concept of the absurd seriously without resorting to the "leaps" of Camus' antecedents (e.g. Kierkegaard, who, abandoning the futility of reason, embraced God as a resolution to absurdity, or by abstracting everything out to infinity like Husserl). He reasoned that the answer to absurdity was to accept it and live "the most life", free from the artificial constraints of morality and ethics premised on ignorance of the condition of the absurd (a terrifying idea in the wrong hands; thankfully, Camus was a principled and compassionate man). 

This is all to say, the level of abstract thought and introspection required to question whether or not one's life is worth living in the absence of assurance that one will rise above the daily struggle for food, sex and shelter is not a capacity present in any animal but the human (at least as far as we know). 

Animals may engage in behavior that we might recognize as suicidal, but without the intent we associate with suicide (for example, fighting when flight would preserve their life).
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I swear to god this Cat my Brother ran over committed suicide. 

We were driving down the road, going about 25 and I look to my left and see a cat just sitting on the sidewalk, as we pass the cat it darts out towards my Brothers car and he runs over it with his REAR tires. We were already halfway past this cat and it ran out to get killed, I've never seen anything like it and it was the weirdest thing.. 

Why didn't it just run the other way!? WHY!?!?!?! I still feel horrible about it, especially after watching it die in the middle of the road.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: As mentioned in previous comments, dolphins can commit suicide, however, they are not the only ones. Humming birds and mocking birds have been known for "intentionally" flying into thorn or thicket bushes and Impaling themselves on the barbs or thorns. When mocking birds do this they let out a cry that is known as their "death cry" as they only sing it as they are dieing. Also dogs have been known to jump off bridges  and refuse to eat. I'm pretty sure that there are plenty more animals that commit suicide but these are the ones that I know of.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: They Do !

Penguins suffer from emotional issues that will cause them to wander off into the Antarctic tundra until they die from the cold.
Squirrels, addicted to the adrenaline from the streets, will run across the street for a quick fix.
Dolphins, as the top comment state, and many other aquatic mammals will beach themselves in a frenzy.  Whether this is to kill themselves or to save their comrades or whether the water activity and weather has anything to do with this is still up for discussion, neh?
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: These comments show that animals can have depression, but not necessarily suicide.  Suicide is self-harm with the intent to die - which is a pretty complex conceptual idea.  It requires both a sense of self and an understanding of what life and death are.  It's hard to say which animals are capable of figuring this sort of thing out.  Kind of a fascinating topic (sense of self, not suicidal animals, lol).
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: This will be buried but scorpions will sting themselves in the back when they are trapped, thus killing themselves.


Search scorpion suicide on youtube and you'll see tons of videos of people trapping scorpions and the scorpion killing itself soon after
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: they do.  a friend of mines dog was sitting fine until he saw a car coming down the road.  It upped and b-lined it to the car and jumped out infront killing it.  Ive also seen birds dive bomb car windows
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I work as a vet tech and we do trap and release on feral cats. When feral cats wake up and are drugged up I've seen 2 try to kill themselves by smashing their heads against the cages. Cats are crazy
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Toxoplasmosis is a parasite that has been found to encourage risky behavior in mice. The parasite needs the host to get eaten by a cat to finish its life cycle. In humans correlations have been identified between toxoplasmosis and schizophrenia.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: When you go to the tarsier sanctuary in the Philippines, you're not allowed to touch or pet them because they apparently get so stressed that they kill themselves by bashing their head against a tree and jumping off.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I was reading about something like this, did you know even humans didn't commit suicide since long? And the rate of the suicide is going up as the education is going up.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I had a gold fish attempt suicide on me twice. It kept jumping out of the water, finally we bought the tank a lid and it's 7 years old now.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: My hamster grabbed all the hay in its cage, and stuffed itself in the top killing itself. I was to young to know what really happened.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: when I was a kid I had a pony that drowned itself in its water.

It had cancer it turned out.

True story :(
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Then there was [this sad story]( _URL_16_) about a mother bear, having been used in experiments for years, kills her cub before killing herself.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I once watched a frog jump right into a fire.  Just hopped right into the embers and cooked itself. That was weird.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I've had guinea pigs, and they've all gotten depressed and quit eating. Apparently it's not uncommon for them to do so :(
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: They do. Some penguins for example, walk straight to icy deserts and die, and no one knows why 

_URL_17_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: If a scorpion is trapped for too long with no means of escape, they will sting and kill themselves.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: _URL_18_

Search for the word Kathy 

Kathy was the dolphin whom played Flipper the most on TV
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Idk I've seen some squirrels take leaps from branches that would come pretty to attempted suicide.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: An orca at Miami Seaquarium named Hugo killed itself by repeatedly smashing into the wall of it's very small enclosure enclosure. His tank mate of the time still lives in this tank today, sadly. It's infuriating that people attack SeaWorld, whilst this place gets no attention. SeaWorld have offered to tank her on and tried to rescue her from the enclosure they call the "whale bowl".

I've heard of dolphins drowning themselves in poor conditions also. There's a documentary about that woman who lived full time with a dolphin to try and teach it to speak english - it's that same story made famous because she ended up jacking off the dolphin because it became sexually interested in her and that kept getting in the way of lessons. But anyway, when the facility ran out of money (it was at one point NASA funded, would you believe) the dolphins ended up in terrible conditions sat in their own sewage in literal bathtub sized tanks in the dark. Couple of them drowned themselves. Search youtube for "woman who lived with dolphins" or something and you'll find it, it's interesting and ridiculous.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I'm almost certain that I witnessed a sparrow commit suicide. I was waiting for the train, and there were two sparrows perched on the tracks. The red lights go on, the gates go down. Still, the birds sit. The train gets closer, and still they sit. It gets so close that it muffles the music from my ear buds. One bird flies away. The train pulls into the station, and the sparrow doesn't even budge as it collapses under the wheels of the train. All that's left is a couple of feathers slowly floating back to the ground, like something out of a cartoon.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: White-tailed deer commit suicide everyday here in the North Eastern US. There's really no other way to explain it. Why else would a deer go from living in a perfectly quiet, dark peaceful setting, deep in the woods, to just deciding to jump headlong in front of the one large, loud, heavy metal object traveling 60 mph down a desolate country road? Their timing has to be impeccable to accomplish this.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I had a pair of dogs, brothers you see. Sampson was known for climbing fences to escape and managed to do so with a leash on. I came home and found that he hung himself. His brother T-bone was very upset once Sampson wasnt around. After a few weeks past he pushed his head onto a protruding piece of metal from the fence and died.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Animals do commit suicide.. Dolphins, swans, cows, sheep, dogs, ducks, whales, and a few other species have been documented committing suicide. Usually it is because of grief (loss of a mate), or depression as in the case of captive dolphins that one day refuse to breathe any longer, so they sink to the bottom of their tank to await their deaths.. It's rather sad.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Flies, gnats, ants and other small but largely irritating animals routinely crawl, fly or scamper into my house with the intended purpose of suicide. I am sorry for what they might be going through but for fuck's sake, they'll typically just beeline for the nearest window, piss around a bit then just hollow up and die; leaving me to deal with the outcome. Assholes.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I think they do. The day after my dad passed away his dog (one of the sweetest I've ever had) picked a fight with a big dog next door (doberman I think) and the big dog killed him. He just couldn't live without my dad. He was also in the bed next to my dad when he had his heart attack.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Penguins sometimes seem to get some sort of madness and walk off into directions that make little sense. There is no food, no water and no penguins. Just their certain demise.

_URL_19_

In this particular clip a penguin waddles 80km or so out into the middle of no where and just keeps going.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: one day my dog ran outside the door when i was leaving for school and ran out into the street and got hit by a car. Idk if it was suicide but it kinda felt like it was and it was very sad:(
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: One of our chickens killed herself.  The Rooster was pecking the shit out of her so when we went out to euthanize her with an axe she freaked out, started digging to get under the coop, and broke her own neck.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: One of the most disturbing posts I have ever read was about a bear who killed her cub and then herself while in some horrifying Chinese bile extraction factory.

It was a long time ago, my details might be fuzzy.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I hope this isn't too late but one time i trapped a scorpion in a bucket of water and after about 10 minutes it contorted and stabbed itself in the abdomen because it couldn't escape! So yes, they do
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: .Meerkats have been known to commit suicide. When they are migrating, some meerkats purposely die off so that the rest of the group will live on with the resources that they currently have
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: The Andean Condor, at the end of its life, chooses to fly to as high an altitude as possible, then dive down and crash into the mountains, killing themselves. 

Source: _URL_20_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: My years of education from video games taught me nothing. Lemmings don't really kill themselves....does this mean red and white mushrooms won't make me grow and be able to smash bricks?
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: If I'm not mistaken there's documented cases of juvenile chimps refusing to eat or do anything after the death of a loved one, especially a parent.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I disagree, a horrifying example was in China where a [mother bear kills her cub and then committed suicide in order to avoid life of torture](_URL_21_).
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: There was a bridge somewhere where dogs just mysteriously jump off and die

If they survive, they climb back to the top and go again
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: It's because when left in their natural habitat animals are content.

[bear held in tortuous Chinese crush cages kills cub and commits suicide](_URL_22_)
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: If animals evolved to kill themselves they'd stop reproducing and go extinct I guess.  Suicide is not a particularly desirable survival trait.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: "To be immortal is commonplace; except for man, all creatures are immortal, for they are ignorant of death"
- Jorge Luis
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I've seen birds kill themselves. I watched a sparrow dive into the side of my neighbours house. Neck snapped, DOA.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Don't forget all those Deer that seem to jump over them. impale themselves in fences trying to commit suicide though.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I actually heard of a bridge some where in Sweden? that an astronomical amount of dogs have jumped off of.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Because they aren't denied their natural inheritance, generally.

Unless we're talking about bears on Chinese bear farms, apparently.
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: Appartenly some penguins wander inland and die :(

_URL_23_
question: Why don't animals attempt suicide? answer: I'll just leave this here. Sorry not sorry. 

_URL_24_
question: Why do zoos prepare animal food as if the animals were at restaurants? why not give the whole uncut vegetable instead of cutting it into pieces? answer: Some reasons,

- Enables all individuals in a group to obtain enough of each food type and reduces aggression.

- Prevents wastage caused by animals taking one bite and discarding the rest of a large item.

- Makes it so that you can scatter the food over a larger area to encourage foraging behaviour.

There has been some research about if it's a good thing or not since there are some downsides too.
question: Why do zoos prepare animal food as if the animals were at restaurants? why not give the whole uncut vegetable instead of cutting it into pieces? answer: Besides what sortaz says, it also makes it easier for observers to log the food eaten by each animal. Once when I was young I interned at a zoo where we cut the food into pieces of a particular size/weight and then kept a log on certain critters documenting their eating habits/patterns.
question: Why do zoos prepare animal food as if the animals were at restaurants? why not give the whole uncut vegetable instead of cutting it into pieces? answer: It also ensures that the animal is getting all of the nutrients they need. And, in animals that don't forage, the food is usually placed in a few specific places in the enclosure or on specific platforms that the animals are conditioned to know are used for feeding. That way, the least amount of food goes to waste as possible.

Here's an example: I worked as a camp counselor for two summers at a small zoo near me. Because one of the camp themes was focused on what you need to do to take care of the animals (essentially turning the kids into mini zookeepers for two weeks) and we had to walk through everything we would be doing with the kids, we got to prepare food for and feed the animals.

Now, one of the animals was a polar bear. Instead of throwing chunks of fish and whatever else into it's enclosure where the polar bear may not find them/where they'd rot, we would have to make special meatballs and roll them under a special door in the enclosure where the polar bear was waiting to catch them. These meatballs not only had fish, but also had vitamin and mineral powder mixed in as well as some kelp and a fair amount of fat and meat from some other meat source (I want to say venison or something like that) to ensure that she got as realistic a diet as possible living in captivity.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: The dominant theory regarding adhd is that its caused by a lack of dopamine in the brain. Stimulants correct this imbalance by causing a temporary increase in the production of dopamine,  allowing the patient to focus better.

Edit: the above is apparently now believed to be an outdated theory, /u/ibelieveindogs and a few other users below have offered more up to date concepts

see one example at the link below:

_URL_0_

I've disabled reply notifications for this post, lots of people below have made corrections and shared anecdotes, and I replied to some, I wasn't expecting this to get so popular and I frankly can't be bothered to keep checking and replying. Please don't be offended if I don't reply after this edit, if you want to discuss it further there's plenty of great replies and information following my post by other people, but I'm really not interested, I just wanted to share what I was told, I'm not an expert or doctor by any means.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: My cardiologist sister explained it best...

For reasons we have yet to fully understand, the ADHD brain is demanding an abnormal amount of stimulation all the time. So whenever you're not being bombarded with stimulation (sitting in class, a meeting, or doing repetitive tasks), your brain will start sending you signals demanding that you either find something stimulating, or start creating it yourself, leaving you no other choice but to focus only on things that stimulate.

Giving an ADHD brain a chemical stimulant is feeding it the stimulation it's demanding, which literally frees you from having to seek it out or hyperactively create it yourself. Once the brain gets what it needs, it leaves you alone, free to suddenly CHOOSE whether you want to pay attention and focus or not.

**TL;DR: An ADHD brain is constantly DEMANDING an abnormal amount of stimulation. Giving it a chemical stimulant frees you from that constant demand.**
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Stimulants, as a whole, are not used to treat ADHD.  The medications that happen to help with the symptoms (they sure as hell do not alleviate them) also happen to be stimulants.  I have ADHD.  Caffeine is terrible for me.  I never consume it.  My medications (Adderall, Concerta, etc.) do technically raise my resting heart beat, but they help me to simply "zone out" and focus on one thing at at a time.  Without the medication, I could never read a short paper in a room full of people talking, let alone just coughing and making random noises.  I am always on hyper-alert.

The medication does in fact speed up my metabolic rate and makes me heat up and sweat more, but the fact that it helps me to drown out all the background noise and just focus on one topic is what is often described as the "relaxing" factor.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I've had ADHD since I was 7 years old, and I'm 26 now. I've been taking Adderall for a very, very long time. I can honestly say that it's very different for each person, so each individual situation can be catered to. For a majority of people with ADHD, stimulants affect them different than other people. For example, if a person without the disorder were to take Adderall, they would probably talk a lot, get really excited, bounce off the walls, etc.



But when I take my Adderall, I get very quiet, I don't talk, and I don't engage in unnecessary conversation with people.  You can obviously see how stimulants help me in this aspect. It literally forces my focus, and I have yet to meet someone else who doesn't have ADHD that has my same kind of reaction to stimulants.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: My father is one of the leading psychiatrists who specializes in the treatment of ADHD, specifically in adults. There are a lot of misconceptions about all of this, especially the mechanism by which psychostimulants alleviate the symptoms of ADHD. There was a video posted awhile ago about an explanation of Adderall might work: by keeping dopamine in the synapse longer . I showed it to my dad and he immediately said "that idea was dismissed in the 70's. This isn't true or even all that modern." 


The main question should be "why would a stimulant help a person with ADHD slow down and focus? How does that make sense?" And on the surface, it doesn't. But what if, and give me some time to explain this, the medications didn't act as stimulants? What if they acted as something else? As some background, out of all the stimulants we have at our disposal, there are only two that have any effectiveness in treating ADHD: amphetmamines and methylphenidate (and methamphetamine, but that is usually a last option treatment for obvious reasons). These molecules have a property called chirality, which means that even though they're connected the same way, they are oriented differently in space, like mirror images. The most common analogy is the human hand: they are exactly the same but mirror images (a right hand won't fit in a left glove). Anyway, only 3 of these forms have shown benefit for those with ADHD: both R- and S-amphetamine, and R-threo-methylphenidate. So, amongst all the stimulants we know, only two have shown any benefit for ADHD treatment and, of those two, only three of the six isomers show any efficacy. So we're talking a very narrow range here. 


Now, if these drugs worked by central nervous system stimulation, theoretically any stimulant should work right? But they don't. Case in point: caffeine. Anyone with ADHD will tell you caffeine doesn't help. So what else could be happening?  The theory my father subscribes to is one of a so-called "replacement model," where people with ADHD are deficient in a naturally occurring molecule and the medication will mimic that molecule as a replacement. For instance, there is a testing program called TOVA which is used to test a person's attention. Patients with ADHD will usually score very low when compared to the general populace. However, if you give the patient 5 mg of an ADHD medication, their scores jump. Give them 10 mg, it will jump even more. Give them 15 mg, even more. Remarkably, these jumps are linear in fashion. This is where it gets interesting: it only happens up to a certain point. After a certain dosage, the scores begin to drop off dramatically. If a person's optimal dose is 20mg, by the time they're taking 40mg, they're actually doing worse than they were doing without any medication at all. If they worked by a stimulation mechanism, then the more you gave somebody the better they would do. But this isn't the case. This is similar to a person with diabetes who doesn't produce enough insulin. If you don't give them enough, it won't be effective. Give them too much, there will be health hazards. Give them just the right amount and they will function normally. And this is what ADHD medications do: allow the patient to function like a person with a typical nervous system. Pills don't give skills. They are a means by which to even the playing field.


So, if we assume that they act as a replacement/supplement for a naturally occurring molecule, where does it act? A lot of people think it is the prefrontal cortex which is associated with attention and so this would be the place that ADHD medications operate. But this may not be true either. It a very interesting experiment performed in the early 1990s (I'm a little iffy on the time period, I can find the paper if people are interested), a doctor was interested in where the main area of action was for methylphenidate. To determine this, she "radiolabeled" methylphenidate, meaning that one atom in the molecule was replaced by a radioactive isotope and when it decayed, it could be detected measured. After creating this special version of methylphenidate, she injected it directly into the carotid artery of volunteers. What she found was that it accumulated almost exclusively in a part of the brain called the corpus striatum. According to Wikipedia, the corpus striatum is associated with "multiple aspects of cognition, including motor and action planning,decision-making, motivation, reinforcement, and reward perception." All of these things play a role in ADHD. So if the ADHD brain is deficient in a molecule that acts upon the corpus striatum, it's activity will decrease and all of the above aspects will be impaired.


This is a very basic version of this. It's currently 3am so I don't have many of these sources in front of me, but if people are interested, I might be able to get my dad to write up a full discussion of this. It goes much deeper and gets way more complex, but since  this is ELI5 and I'm tired, this will do for now.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: ELI5 Answer:

**Orchestra and Conductor**

In the ADHD brain the orchestra is playing, but the conductor is asleep.  Stimulant medication wakes up the conductor to get the orchestra back under control.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I have been diagnosed with ADHD hyperactive with impulsivity three times, maybe four, I can't actually remember. Doctors have been telling my parents I need to be on amphetamines since I was 13 years old. And the difference between me being off meds and on them is pretty stark. 

Off medication it's as though my mind and ability to concentration are susceptible to the most minor distractions. I could be in a class lecture about something I'm deeply interested in, hear the ac click on, and I'll spend the next ten minutes wondering how the ac unit in the building works, how's it's plumbed, how much air it has to move, and how much refrigerant it must take to cool a college building. When I was a teenager a piece of music could come on while I was driving, and if I really enjoyed it I would just inexplicably start hauling ass, and occasionally try to match my up shifts and down shifts to the tempo. It's a nightmare when I play guitar because I'll try to learn a song, think it sounds like something else, and then start trying to play that, until I'm reminded of something else. If I hear a door open I frequently start wondering about how the lever works. If I hear a car pass in the distance with a loud exhaust I will try to figure out the engine configuration, (was that a V6 or I6) often in the middle of a conversation. 

It's like reading the first paragraph of a wikipedia page and clicking on the first link that follows in perpetuity. 

On medication the crazy and intruding distractions are reduced to almost non-existence, and I can at least ignore ordinary stuff that would normally set my mind wandering. Although my friends complain that I seem irritable. One friend calls me "Angry LAULitics" when Im on them. But Im not actually angry, Im just frustrated because I see and can focus on problems I can't fix when I decide to zero in on them. I think I only seem irritable because I have less tolerance for small talk and bullshit when I'm medicated. If you want to tell me a story about a specific event, you had better get to the point quick, and not spend 15 minutes giving me a backstory or I'm going to inevitably and perhaps rudely ask you "Are these details relevant to the story?" Medication makes me from my perspective, feel hyper efficient, but I suspect, that in some sense this is what normal *is* to people without the disorder.

I actually use ADHD to my advantage sometimes. I came up with a strategy in college when I couldn't afford my meds, that if I wanted to force myself stay on subject I would read articles or the wiki page about whatever the class was discussing so I could put it in a larger context. By loading my brain with an additional relevant source of stimulation it helped keep me from thinking about pointless shit, like how the desks could be better designed or arranged, or how shitty and unreliable dry erase markers are most of the time, and what could be done to fix them.

ADHD is weird, I still don't know what it is exactly, or all of it's ramifications, because I've had it my entire life. Hell Im not even sure if I have a disorder because this is a *normal* frame of reference to me. But I know it makes me absurdly curious about mundane things, which isn't a bad thing in of itself, in fact its actually quite helpful at times; but when your interest in mundane stuff takes precedence over shit you need to be able to force yourself to focus on thats when it becomes an issue worthy of medication. It's like being locked into a state of perpetual and often annoying curiosity about whatever is most stimulating moment by moment. 

I also like caffeine a lot, but mixing that with adderall is too much. Caffeine is my go to if I don't have my medication, and I drink about 4-6 cups of coffee in an hour or two to get dialed in.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: ADHD is thought to be caused by underactivity in the frontal cortex, and thus, it is believed that stimulants such as ritalin increase activity in this part of the brain which help treat hyperactivity and lack of attention.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: It takes a certain kind of effort to focus. Most people don't notice this until they start to get fatigued from working too long. 

People with ADHD don't notice it because our brains don't flex that way.  Certain stimulants can help us focus normally, because they kinda "prime the pump" for that process.

It's worth noting that for folks like me who were never treated until adulthood, having the power to focus is no replacement for the lifetime of practice we missed out on.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Literal ELI5 for the curious :

   Imagine a class room,  with a dozen of noisy active kids,  a good- tough- teacher is the only thing stopping these brats from wrecking the class room,  

teacher is very tired today , and  he naps on his desk,  kids goes CRAZY!,  Principal comes in, wakes the teacher, and situation is under control again. 

Classroom : brain. 

Teacher: cerebral cortex(higher functions). 

Kids: subcortical functions. 

Principle : stimulant.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Stimulants have a paradoxical reaction in people with ADHD. When "normal" people take stimulants they get wired, but when people with ADD take stimulants it actually calms them down. Meth will make someone with ADHD tired.

Sources: Psych degree and Rehab.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: ADHDer here. You know how once you get in the groove of doing something, it becomes easier? How if you're on a run, the first step is the hardest?

When I'm not on my meds, *every* step feels like the first step. I literally *don't have the ability* to get "in the groove" of working on anything. There is no positive feedback from making a little bit of progress, and in fact, I have no feeling of "making progress" as I work, unless I change gears and go quantitatively check how far along I am in whatever task I'm working on.

I can't sit still because I'm always "taking the first step"- I'm always fidgeting and squirming around because I'm always getting comfortable in my chair for the first time. Most people might shuffle around in their chair a little bit to get comfortable before settling down, but I never settle down.

Another thing is that it's very difficult to filter out which details and sensations are important. Without meds, the very act of existing is like drinking from a firehose- way too much input to handle. At this very moment, you are probably actively filtering out 1) your physical tactile input stimuli associated with sitting or standing or whatever position your body has been in for the past few minutes 2) irrelevant audio input (there almost always is something - a fan humming, a train going by in the distance, background music) 3) irrelevant taste input (yes, you are ALWAYS tasting something) 4) irrelevant visual input (your eyes are probably focused on a screen of sorts) 5) irrelevant olfactory input (yes, you are ALWAYS smelling something...even if it's a "neutral" smell).

Without meds, I am bombarded by all of that at once, because I can't filter what stimuli I pay attention to. I'm hyperactive, so instead of paying attention to none of it (zoning out), I pay attention to ALL of it!

Enter stimulant medication. Disclaimer time... the explanation to follow might not be totally medically accurate, but it explains my experience from the ADHDer's perspective: You'd think that stimulants make my fidgety, going-over-everything-too-fast-to-pay-attention manner of thinking even worse, but the stimulants help me to have a longer attention span. That means I can really get comfortable in my chair *the first time*, so I don't have to keep doing it. And I don't keep noticing how uncomfortable I am, because I'm locked onto whatever I'm trying to focus on (i.e. I'm not distracted by the sensory influx of my body constantly pressing against a hard chair). When I do math with meds, I have a long enough attention span to switch back and forth between the plan and whatever step I'm carrying out, without getting lost as to where I am in the problem (without meds, I get lost often and have to start over from scratch whenever I get lost).
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Because, for a person with ADHD, the front part of the brain is a little slow. This isn't good, so the brain compensates by speeding up all the brain, which makes the front thinking part work like it should, but the rest of the brain is working too hard. This drug speeds up that part of the brain, letting the rest of the brain relax.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I don't know any of the real science based theory of how it works. I can tell you I'm prescribed it and I take it as I'm supposed to. The best way I have ever been able to explain how it works with me is to imagine you're thinking about 10 different things at once. Not like a scatter brained schizophrenic way but like maybe a normal person would feel if maybe they frank to much caffiene. Able to focus on one idea for a second then another pops in maybe you're a little chattery. That was my life for awhile. Once I got an adderal script that normal way of thinking and functioning changed for me. The way I can best describe it was like once I could tell my addys kicked in I felt like a giant broom swept my brain clean of everything but the immediate important thing. Here's the thing though. I experimented with alot. Especially during college. Any amp was my fav. So like coke, kitchen speed even just dirty stuff like psuedophedrine (it wasn't so tightly controlled back then). the weird thing was while all those things made my friends grind their teeth, act creepy and talk to much I instead felt more and more steady the more I did (there was a tipping point o found out one terrible night). But essentially all amps made me actually feel in control and confident. I would stop second guessing I said to people and was so confident. I felt like it was my "nutty professor". Those nights were great and like everyone else that has taken amps know I could drink like a monster.  But what killed me was besides my prescribed Adderall dose any other hype drugs I took I had absolutely god awful come downs. Most often those super depressed two or so days when you felt like shit bit were smart enough to know it would pass. But when I took the "sketchy" kitchen crank or psuedophedrine I would become like a different person and go through like a 2 day paranoia period where I'd convince myself I had blacked out and committed a bad crime like robbing a bank. I only needed like 3 of those come downs before I quit all amps except my prescribed 


Edit: this post looks like im off my meds lol. I think for people who need it (adderal/ritalin etc.) does have the real affect of dropping dopamine when our brains aren't good at doing it. Science has figured out that Adderall is the safest way to make it a therapeutic dose. My explorations into elicit drugs that also elicit dopamine dumps always ended in dangerous and scary withdrawals.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: **ELI5: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?**

   Late to the party OP, sorry. But I felt it was important to answer your question. I am 58, have ADHD, and have been studying this disorder intensely for over 10 years. My goal is never to present the right solutions to others, it is only to share my experience, and the hope that others may benefit. Based on that, I would like to share my thoughts about what, and how I might tell a 5 year old child about their ADHD, and how a treatment such as stimulants might work.

-------

  And, this is similar to what I told my 11 year old son when he was diagnosed with ADHD and was prescribed Adderall - which I was also taking at the time. The following example is also a roughed out excerpt from a book about Adult ADHD that I have been working on for several years. It is still in development *[please forgive me, I promise this is NOT self-promotion.]*

-------

  If you have a young child with ADHD, who doesnt understand what is happening - and why they may have to take stimulant medication  please consider using this story example when attempting to help them cope with the concept. Ive been there - both with my son, and with myself. This may be long, but its worth taking the time to share this with a young child who is almost certain to feel confused and frustrated about why they struggle so much, or why adults yell at them, or why they feel so different from the other kids at school, or why they feel stupid, or why they have no friends, or why they have to repeat a grade, or why it is so hard to read and study, or why they have to go to a psychologist or psychiatrist and, of course, why they may have to take stimulant medication.

-------

  As you read the following explanation - that I believe a 5 year old might understand - please think about how you might change or distill it to be more effective or appropriate for your own child, and in your own situation. I sincerely hope it can help someone deal more effectively with this incredibly frustrating and misunderstood disorder.

-------

  *"Son / Daughter, I want to talk with you about your ADHD and about the medication the doctor wants to prescribe. But first, I wanted to tell you a story. Is that OK? Great, try and listen closely. But if you need to get up, move, feel bored or wanting to do something else, we can put the story on pause for a minute while you do it. Ill even help. But then we must come right back to the story, because its really important. Is that a deal? Thanks. 
OK, so imagine tons of really big traffic intersections with 1000s of roads entering them  and they are extremely busy all the time. AND, all of the cars going through them are being driven by people traveling to their jobs - and these are jobs which are important to keeping the world safe and healthy.*

-------

  *BUT, because of the unpredictable traffic that change constantly, the city had a great idea. Instead of using the normal red, yellow and green traffic signals to organize the flow of all the cars, they hired really awesome, cyborg policemen with perfect programming. By watching the changing flow of traffic over millions of years, they have become experts at deciding WHEN each car should go through the intersection AND can even tell some of the more confused drivers WHERE they are supposed to go. With the policemens direction, the traffic moves and flows perfectly, with each car moving through the intersection without being hit, cut-off by another car, or lost in the city. Everyone gets to the right location, and arrives at their jobs at the right time, and in the right order. The cyborg traffic policemens awesome skills allow these people to work together perfectly with all of the other workers on whom they depend. Do you understand how this works? Good!* 

-------

  *NOW, imagine that these policemen have a spell put on them. Youve seen different spells in the movies, and heard about them in the books Ive read to you? Anyway, the spell hurt our awesome traffic cyborg policemen. All of sudden, they either slowed down a lot, stopped working, or didnt work right. Guess what happened? Yup! The traffic goes crazy. All of our drivers are still trying to get to their jobs, but most of them really dont know when they are supposed to go through the intersection, or in what order. AND NOW, the more confused drivers still dont know where to go. The people in the cars eventually get to their jobs, but mostly not at the right times or in the right order, which makes it really hard to do their jobs well  no matter how hard they try. Sometimes their work doesnt even get done at all - which is super frustrating. Does this make sense to you?  So, what do you think might help us correct this problem? Youre Right! We should try and take the spell off the awesome cyborg traffic policemen so they can get back to doing their important jobs, like they were programmed to do - properly directing the cars through the intersections.*

-------

  *Now as you think about this story, I want you to imagine that this traffic, these intersections, and the awesome cyborg policemen are really, really tiny  and they are inside your brain, helping make things work right. Because your brain actually has really cool things like these inside it. There are millions and millions of interconnected pathways that help move electricity and important chemicals from one place to another  at super-fast speeds. These are like the roads in our story on which the people in their cars move in order to get to their jobs. BUT, like in our story, the cars have to go through intersections  which are like the connections in our brain where the electricity and chemicals pass through, which also have things like the awesome cyborg policemen who properly direct the traffic.*

-------

  *So, remember when you went to the doctor, and he told you that you had ADHD. He also told you that ADHD is a disorder  or problem that messes up the connections which allow electricity and chemicals to travel properly inside your brain. With ADHD, your brain works very differently than most other people. Its not always a bad thing, but it usually makes it harder for your brain - and you - to do many things that, for most people who dont have ADHD, are easier or simpler. Everyone struggles sometimes, but with ADHD, these struggles happen way more often, and usually to the point that a bunch of things in your life get much harder to do - which can even make you frustrated and sad. Have you ever felt this way?*

-------

  *Well, lets go back to our story. Since ADHD is a problem that messes up the connections which allow electricity and chemicals to travel properly inside your brain - what does this mean? In our story, what allowed the cars and traffic to move well? Yup, the awesome cyborg policemen at the intersections  who are like the things in the connection of your brain - through which the electricity and chemicals must travel. So, if ADHD messes that up, then that must mean that ADHD is like the spell that messed with our awesome cyborg policemen.*

-------

  *So, the only thing we didnt discuss in our story, was how they were going fix the awesome cyborg policemen. Well instead of going back to our story, lets keep talking about your brain, and your ADHD  which is kind of like the spell on the awesome cyborg policemen. What do you think might help allow the awesome cyborg policemen in your brain to do their jobs the way they are supposed to, and allow your traffic to move correctly? Yup! The stimulant medication that the doctor wants you to take. It helps correct that part of your brain that is like the awesome cyborg policemen. It reduces the power of the spell. Whenever you take the medication, they can do their jobs more effectively without slowing down, stopping, or directing traffic in the wrong order. Does that make sense? Do you have any questions (of course you do.) Now does it make more sense? Great!*

-------

  *And remember, ADHD is a very confusing disorder that almost everyone has a hard time understanding - even doctors. So, if anyone tells you that you shouldnt be taking this medication, or makes you feel guilty or bad because you are taking it, they probably havent heard the story I just told you. And, some people may have heard the story, but dont accept it because they think they are smarter and have all the right answers. They are not smarter, and there are no right answers for everyone. The only right answers, are the ones that work right for you. But that means they would have to know you as well as we do. And they never will. And, since they dont know you as well as we do, they cant possibly know the right answers for you. Does that make sense? The other, more important thing they dont understand is that - like the cyborg policemen in our story  even when things get difficult, you will always be AWESOME! And ADHD will never change that!*

--------------------------------

**[FOOTNOTE: There is, however, one aspect of ADHD that I would not discuss with your 5 year old; ADHD can last a lifetime. And without a medical breakthrough, or a flexible, encouraging, positive environment in which their ADHD is understood and accepted - where they can have a happy and productive personal and work life - they may be taking their medication for a very long time.]**

    Thanks for reading!
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: ADHDer here...  I honestly forgot the medication I took when I was younger/I didn't even care... but I recently (within the past two years) started taking medicine for it again to help my focus.  They started a mix of Adderall and Ritalyn... though I hated every moment of it. It made me super uneasy and filled me with anxiety, also lost all apetite. Though recently my new Dr. switched me to Bupropion and it works wonders, no anxiety, feel relaxed but focused, and hungry like the wolf. I take it in the morning with some coffee and I am a focusing machine.

This has nothing to do with your question, but I... I dunno just wrote it down... so enjoy
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: because curing the disease with genetic testing is not as profitable as giving some one speed and turning them into a zombie, and then a drug addict when they mature. 

/source.... i was raised thinking i had adhd, and on Ritalin... grew up in the system... eventually had genetic testing and treated the CBS mutation i had....all the symptoms went away.... and can be recreated at will if I play with the variables  that effect the CBS mutation.  its actually very neato... i can induce low level mania at will and stop it when ever i want.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Psychologist here. ADHD people have an underperforming frontal lobe, which is responsible for things like concentration and impulse control. A stimulant like Ritalin boosts the frontal lobe functioning back to a normal level, thereby increasing impulse control and concentration. I think other answers in this thread have been a little off base.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: If you look at the different explanations here, you see that they don't add up. The top comment doesn't really explain anything: "ADHD is a lack of dopamine and therefore it can be treated by adding dopamine".

But what is dopamine?

Why is there a lack of it in ADHD?

You see stuff about how the front part of the brain isn't active enough. But what is the function of the front part? What does it mean that it isn't active?

I think these explanations are hollow, and I believe this is because our understanding of ADHD is hollow as well. Methylphenidates are working really, really well. Discovering why they work so well is harder than experimenting to find that they work. That being said, I think there are some clues that can help connect the dots.

**The amygdala**

Those who have heard of this structure may refer to it as "the thing that controls fear". That's totally off the mark, though. And it's such a boring explanation for the fascinating almond-shaped structure that is the amygdala. While the function of the amygdala remains, to this day, disputed, it is obviously related to what we think of as willpower. If you remove one of the two parts of your friend's amygdala^1, she will become lazy. Ask her to do the dishes, and she will say "meh". She won't study, do chores, or do anything where the result requires her to wait. She will also not be willing to make a real effort. She will choose the easy way out instead.

She will behave as if she was running low on dopamine.

**The locus coeruleus**

Anatomical terms often sound pretty intimidating, but they are really just descriptions of what things look like. This one translates to "blue spot" because it's a spot that looks sorta, well, blue. Again, this structure is known for something boring: arousal. If you look beyond that, it becomes much more interesting. This blue spot fires a signal^2 whenever something weird happens. It tells almost the whole brain that "something happened that we totally didn't expect, guys". Now, surprise can be either good or bad, depending on the circumstances. When you're watching a movie, you would scratch your eyes out if it was completely predictable. You want some surprise, or else you will be bored. Yet, too much surprise is awful. It's confusing and strange and scary.

What would happen if you started messing around with the blue spot? Well, if you partly removed it, you would almost always be bored. Life would feel like the most boring and predictable thing ever. You'd run around trying to make something interesting happen.

You would be hyperactive.

**The basal ganglia**

The name of this set of structures really demonstrates how neuroanatomical naming conventions tend to be pretty banal. Basal is fine; it just means it's at the base of the forebrain. Ganglia, though, is pretty dumb. When a lot of neurons are clustered together and seem to serve some common function, they are called a ganglion, or ganglia. But we don't call them that in the brain. In the brain the very same concept is called a nucleus, or nuclei. So this name just means "it's sort of a lot of different little things and it's at the base".

Still, this is a very, very interesting place. This is the only place in the brain that the locus coeruleus *doesn't* signal to. Why? Because it is responsible for the exact opposite function: signalling when something happened that you *wanted* to make happen. It remembers what you did when you did something that made something good happen. In other words, it is responsible for habits. And, as you probably guessed, dopamine is heavily involved.

What is the deal with dopamine? Again, people tend to only know something off the mark and boring. What's with this tendency? Well, anyhow, people think of dopamine as the "feel good"-chemical or the "pleasure hormone". This can be ruled out easily: many drug addicts take narcotics that increase dopamine in a certain neural pathway^3, but without experiencing any pleasure. At all. They're miserable before they take them, and miserable after. Which is because dopamine is not about pleasure. What is dopamine about, then? Expectation.

Dopamine codes for what you expect will happen (how good or bad something will be), and makes you do more of the stuff that leads to good things. It is a confirmation signal that you are doing the right thing, and that you should do more of it. Which is why doing drugs that stimulate the reward pathway makes you take more drugs that stimulate the reward pathway.

**Prefrontal cortex**

This is the thing we are the most proud of, for some reason. Laymen and scientists alike rave about this part of our cortex, but it is completely useless in isolation. It needs the amygdala. It needs the locus coeruleus. It needs the basal ganglia. It also needs other structures that I haven't mentioned. It's a really needy structure, to be honest. Still, it's a pretty sweet thing.

How can I explain how it works? Well, it's in fact pretty simple. It lets you move around. "Oh so it lets you walk?" No! That's not the idea. Moving around physically is fine and dandy, but there's another place that is often more interesting: your mind. And in fact, moving around in your mind works exactly the same way as moving around physically. It's just that we call it "thinking".

**The cerebellum**

"Oh for crying out loud!" I hear you say. This is the last structure, I promise! Hang, on this one is pretty cool. To put everything in perspective, I need to talk about this one a little bit as well, or the big picture will be incomplete.

Scientists used to treat this structure with a "meh" attitude. But that was only until they realized that it is maybe the most important one of them all. In retrospect, it seems pretty obvious: there are more neurons in the cerebellum than in the rest of the brain combined. Yes, you read that correctly. It takes up only 10 percent of the space but has more than 50 percent of the processing power. While the cerebellum is still subject to hot debate, it is clear that it is responsible for timing. With the cerebellum, you get clumsy. You walk clumsily, and you think clumsily. The cerebellum makes your behavior and thoughts flow smoothly rather than tumble along awkwardly.


**Conclusion**

What do we get when we put all of this together? We get explanations for the commonly observed behavior of people with ADHD, and insights into why stimulants work so well.

The amygdala is, as was mentioned, important for willpower. A way to show how this fits together with the rest is to say that the amygdala is about uncertainty. It motivates you to go from "I don't want to be in this state I'm in now" to to doing something about it. So the locus coeruleus sends a signal that you are surprised. This is also uncertainty. It alerts the amygdala to the fact that you are uncertain. The prefrontal cortex explores your mind to find a way to remove this uncertainty. The basal ganglia receives signals from the prefrontal cortex about what we should do in the form of *expectations*. The logic is as follows: the locus coeruleus tells the brain that there is uncertainty detected. The amygdala doesn't like uncertainty. The prefrontal cortex offers a way out of uncertainty. It tells the basal ganglia "I expect to do such and such". Since the basal ganglia's job is to do what is expected (habit) and to monitor whether it manages to do this through dopamine, it tries to reduce the uncertainty. The cerebellum makes sure the timing for all this is right, so it flows uninterrupted.

In ADHD, every single one of these structures are affected. And if you postulate that ADHD is about reduced dopamine and/or norepinephrine signalling, it all makes a whole lot of sense.

The inattention-part of ADHD can be explained thusly: every strategy the prefrontal cortex comes up with will be registered as failures. Because of this, the amygdala is pissed off. Everything you try to do fails in some way, and you can't control yourself. The rest of your brain won't "listen" to your prefrontal plans, because in their experience, they always fall flat.

The hyperactivity part can be explained like this: because the locus coeruleus is never telling you that you are surprised, you are constantly bored and starved of excitement. You run around looking for something interesting. Something to do. You run around physically, you run around in your mind. Always looking for excitement, but rarely finding it. Sitting still is torture. It is inhumanely boring.


Now, this is obviously not a complete description or explanation, but it helps me to think about ADHD, and I hope it is of help to others as well.

^1. The basolateral complex.

^2. Noradrenaline/Norepinephrine.

^3. The ventral-tegmental-nucleus accumbens pathway, or VTA-nA pathway, mesolimbic pathway, or simply: the reward pathway.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I live in Australia.  And in the area I live in there aren't any doctors that treat or believe in ADHD at all.  I'd have to travel 2 hours and pay around $1000 just to prove that I have ADHD when I was diagnosed as a child.  It's more then that, when I was a kid I showed such typical ADD results I would get all these requests to go into studies, the belief in Australia is once you hit adult hood you instantly grow out of it.

As a full time student/part time working independent.  I literally can't afford it unless I save.  But the amount of shit you have to go through just to get an appointment is INSANE that it is deterant enough.  Begging doctors to write stuff etc.  poving that you aren't a drug addict.  Sitting through doctors lying to your face when they know you know they are lying.

It's like trying to convince you're sane in a mental asylum in the 19th century.

Edit:spelling.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Stumbled upon this while high as fuck on speed. I find it's a great buzz that doesn't necessarily distort your senses as much as it heightens them. Prolonged use tends to wear you down but the initial use tends to make me very sharp and able to articulate what would normally be difficult to express thoughts and opinions. Although sometimes it can lead to excessive stimulation which can derail the positive effects seen from a smaller dosage.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: As an adult with ADHD I describe it as my brain being a television, but someone else has the remote control..  Stimulants put the remote back in my hands and help me dictate what I focus on.  It's disappointing when others treat you like it's not a true disorder and that I just need to "grow up and discipline myself".  People without the diagnosis don't understand how much it effects my behavior and activity.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I've been on Dexamphetamine for a very long time. It helps tremendously with the concentration element of ADHD, but in no way with the anxiety or stress parts. 

Medicinal cannabis has been a brilliant treatment. Which I can look forward to being legal in Australia in 2098.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: The part of my brain that helps me pay attention to one thing is too quiet sometimes. When I take my stimulant, it makes the part of brain that helps all of my brain work together louder than the other parts that keep distracting me.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Thanks for this post! (This is a throwaway account)

I am in my late 30's and while I would say I have always been on the depressed side, low energy, no motivation, I never considered myself "depressed." The last couple years I have had a couple instances where the depression has significantly taken over my life. I finally decided I need to seek help and ended up seeing a wonderful Psychologist. Within 15-20 minutes of him asking questions and me explaining my life he determined I have one of two diagnosis. I either have ADHD of the inattentive type or an information processing disorder. I remember sitting there and feeling relief, it felt good having someone identify what it is I have struggled with up until that point. 

As a child I was able to function just above the radar and do well in school. As I got older it became harder and most of my mental energy went towards making myself "fit" in and seem normal. Eventually I became so tired and drained I developed a coping mechanism - Avoidance. The past few years I have gradually sunk lower into depression as my life consists of work, and then going home to try and be a good husband and father. I have no energy left for anything else and can barely manage those things...

Back to the present. I am awaiting a referral to see a local doctor who specializes in ADHD. My best case scenario is I have ADD (not the information processing disability for which there is no meds or cure) and we find meds that work and allow me to live. To reach my potential at work, or find a new career path. To be a better husband. A better father. Also, to be able to network and have friends again. 

Again, thanks for this insightful post. Wish me luck!
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: ADHD primarily Innatentive here, it's almost like ADHD with some depressive symptoms. Didn't get caught in school because hyperactivity was down and I was decently smart. One hour of work was equivalent to three hours for others. The buildup in order to do that hour was horrible, and made me frustrated because I knew I was capable of more.

Working on a paper due the next day was like playing one of Jigsaw's games. Graduated in physics with a 3.58. Would I do it over? No, but I wish I had gone on meds from the start. I was better in a crunch because I also had anxiety, and when the going got tough, my body would self medicate with some of the transmitters adderall helps to increase.

Our brains are like a computer with an overclocked processor on a 32 bit OS. I would have to be told three and four times what to do, only to forget when I got to the task. Instructions were the bane of my existence (didn't help ADHD also causes you to misplace things, like grading rubrics).

My therapist told me the neurotranmisters help to stimulate metabolic processes in the parts of the brain with low activity (prefrontal cortex mostly). This is why we can focus on something we enjoy, have impulse problems, and only think about our interests. It's like only using the instinct driven portions our brains. Men are diagnosed more than women due to our hunter-gatherer hard wiering, that's not to say women have it less, but their symptoms are less apparent.

Adderall allows us to use the logical/decision making portions of our brain to greater effect, as well as areas where we have less natural ability. Motivation is easier to muster, and activities outside our interests fell less like banging our head against a wall.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I had to give a 15 minute presentation on Adderall when I was in college; its been almost two years now but i remember most of it. Adderall is prescribed to those with ADHD and ADD, and this is how I remember it working: your 30 mlg extended release capsule is composed of 25% dextroamphetamine and 75% levoamphetamine. The dextro (25%) does two things: it closes off some of the dopamine receptors in the brain which causes a surplus of dopamine to build in the synapse, as well as boost the levels your brain is already making. The levo (75%) also causes a major boost in dopamine release as well as increases your heart rate and blood flow. So your brain is getting more blood flow and at the same time feeding on this larger-than-normal dopamine release, its similar to plugging the drain and turning the faucet on. The result is the feeling of elevated mental sharpness and the giddy apprehensive feeling you get when you know something good is about to happen. I know this because I stayed up a whole week on Adderall while researching Adderall and writing the most in depth study of my life about Adderall.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Your brain is actually a bunch of different systems, that are each trying to go in a different direction and do different things. It's total chaos, like a big flock of sheep.
  
Fortunately, we have a part of the brain - called the **executive system** - that is in charge of making sure the different parts all work together. In a way, it's like the sheep dog herding the sheep.
  
In people with ADHD, the executive system can't keep up with the rest of the brain, so there's a lot of mental chaos and distraction that happens. It's like the sheep dog is sleepy and keeps falling asleep, so the sheep keep escaping.  
  
Stimulants that treat ADHD specifically target the executive system and give it enough of a boost that it can catch up to the rest of the brain. Those stimulants are like giving coffee to the sleepy sheepdog - now it's awake and can do its job!  
  
Source: Have severe ADHD (combined type), spent last several years studying to understand my condition.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Thank you for this thread.  One of my 10 yr old sons has ADHD and he's been on ritalin for 2 yrs.  I am always looking for information on how others act and react to see what kinds of adjustments I need to make to help him out.

For him, we noticed the issues before he was 1 yr old.  His behaviorial issues had not responded to therapy and it was a night and day difference when we decided to put him on meds.  His reading ability shot straight up and he's outstanding at math and he has friends.  There are still bumps with behavior problems but not as extreme as they were previously.  I am glad he is able to be calm and interact well with others when he is taking medication.

It's hard looking on the outside to try to help him because I don't experience what he does.  These explanations and anecdotes help a lot.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I'm a mid 30s adult who has dealt with ADHD his entire life. I always resisted medication because I didn't feel like I needed meds to change a part of me that was just another part of what made me who I am. I got a promotion at work that required me to be very detail oriented and to have to sit through multiple meetings and technical discussions. I began to have real difficulty keeping on task and being able to function at a higher level of demand, so I talked to my wife and my doctor about options. I'm now on a 20mg daily dose of adderall XR (that's the 24 hour extended release version) and the change is amazing. The best way to describe it is that everything still moves at 900 mph in my head but now I can pick and choose which items I lock down on and use in a situation.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: ADHD makes all the boring stuff you have to get through to live a responsible life extra unbearable. The extra shot of dopamine the meds provide tricks your brain into thinking whatever you're occupied with is actually somewhat interesting. Any stimulants or lifestyle changes that increase energy help because you need extra mental discipline to fight the symptoms and that gets tiring quickly.

I'm in the process of weaning off Adderall because it didn't help much and has negative personality and physical effects. Trying to make my environment more stimulating by changing careers and trying to increase physical stamina with exercise. I have the inattentive type + fatigue with no known medical explanation so this is probably a fool's errand, but long-term stimulants use is no good either, would rather have that a tool for short periods of overwork if my career requires it.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: let me explain the big problem with the "dopamine imbalance" theory. If this was true, the absolute worst thing to do to treat a dopamine imbalance would be to introduce a drug that causes dopamine levels to fluctuate. That is like seeing a see saw and saying it is unbalanced and the way to balance it is to set it bouncing it up and down. Its stupid. Everyone who reads this, fails to understand, gets upset and downvotes it is stupid.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I'll explain it in common terms: 
Stimulants are used because the brain is taking in so many stimuli that speeding it up allows it to receive and process all the stimuli and then focus on the stimuli chosen.  

So instead of bouncing from one stimulus to another, you can take them all in quickly and not have to devote brain power to each one individually. 

Make sense?

(I have ADHD and have asked my doctor/ dad who is a doctor.)
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Cousin is autistic and has ADHD. I just asked his Habilitive Therapist this.

She says it's because the synapses in our minds fire off, causing thoughts and actions and such. When you have ADHD, these synapses misfire and rapidfire, and often they don't hit the other synapses like they're supposed to. This causes erratic, distracted behavior, thoughts, and movements.

Stimulants correct these synaptic discharges and make them able to complete their connections.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: My psychiatrist, who relies heavily on 2 minute diagnoses, decided I had ADHD and prescribed Dexedrine. I do have ADHD-like symptoms,  but that drug made it feel like time was standing still, and I felt completely paralyzed on it. I felt nearly suicidal,  so I stopped taking it. I don't get what it was supposed to accomplish.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: I heard that if you have ADHD, medications with pseudophedrine in them (such as Advil Cold  &  Sinus) will make you feel more "relaxed" and "focused", and that this is a good way to see whether you might have it and should go talk to a doctor. Is that true?
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: When you are really tired, you have a hard time concentrating on one thing.  People with ADHD's brains behave kind of like tired people's brains.  Stimulants help "wake" their brains up so they can concentrate on things better.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Shameless plug for /r/ADHD. 

It may seem like a lot of ranting at first, but when you read some of the answers from some folds who are suffering from it, it helps with an understanding.
question: Why are stimulants used to treat ADHD?What is happening in the brain and how does the medication alter it? answer: Stimulants make you more motivated to do useless shit the majority has  conditioned you to believe you need to do.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: Because your blood sugar drops and you get hypoglycemic which causes the nausea or the puky feeling.

 a simpler way to explain this- When have been hungry for a while our bodies start slowing down to preserve nutrition. This affects blood circulation to put it simply which is why some of us feel light headed, dizzy,etc. 

Edit 2- another reason for nausea is the acid produced in the stomach. Excessive acid on an empty stomach can cause nausea/ vomiting as well.

Edit 3- Before my inbox explodes, I would like to say I don't think Hypoglycemia is the only cause here. It's different things for different people as I explained above.  We all have different tolerances towards hunger. This is not a thesis on starvation. 
 
Edit 4- link in my post below in the thread 

Edit 5- RIP my inbox. 

Not all of these things will happen if you've skipped a meal. It's different for different folks. Some of us have blood sugar issues and some don't. A person in this thread got a stroke after starving for nearly a week. 
So, I am not saying if you skip a meal your body will completely shut down. There are different stages of hunger. 
Edit- language
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: I get that every morning, until I sneeze. Then the feeling vanishes like magic.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: It's can be caused by the acid in your empty stomach.  The longer it's been since you ate the worse it can be.  By the acid not having anything to digest it causes irritation to the stomach lining and lower esophagus which you feel as a sensation of nausea.  This sensation tends to be worse in people with a predisposition to having acid reflux.  

An actual medical cause can be gastroparesis where the stomach does not empty correctly and can leave food in your stomach from meals digested during your prior meal that adds to irritation.  

In addition if the nausea is extremely transient, such as a sensation going back and forth between extremely hungry and nauseous quickly, it's likely a caused by a strong signal in the gastric nerves and the limited ability of our brains too correctly interpret this signal.  So it is likely trying to interpret the extreme range of human gastric sensation and gets the two confused, i.e. hunger or nausea.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: Question... why does this happen in obese people just as much as slim people? I feel as a big girl i should have a reserve for my blood to regulate with no? Ive tried skipping a meal and youd think my body could "afford" to not eat but no i get this pain/nausea also.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: I've suffered from this almost permanently for two years now. It has totally ruined my life. I've been unable to work and have moved back in with my parents. Every month or so I feel myself for a few days but then I'm back to feeling shit. I've been to many doctors, the going hypothesis is that it's psycho somatic. I've gone along with this but this post has made me question it. I've never been tested for blood sugar. Plus, the symptoms started when I started a new diet (not on any diet any more though) . If anyone helps me solve this there's a lifetime of reddit gold in it for you. Also I will fly to your town to give you a hug.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: I'd like to know this too, it's always bothered me. I'm 24, healthy, and ain't dead despite being afflicted with this 1-2 times a month since I was really young, so it obviously isn't something serious.

I could never (and can't still) eat breakfast because if I try to eat that early I get sick or find the idea of eating so unappealing I can't, and usually have a big lunch. If I'm still not hungry at lunch, then I can get sick from not eating later on.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: A few days ago, the weather was REALLY hot, and so I didn't really feel hungry for pretty much most of the day. In the late afternoon that day I went to the pool with a friend (since it was still hot) and I got the nauseated feeling. That feelin of nausea was really the only thing reminding me that I hadn't eaten. At first I was wondering why I felt sick, but a few minutes later realised that it was because I hadn't eaten anything (I'd had the feeling bedore for the same reason).
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: I think it might be your body preparing to survive without food, so It'll run on body fat and other stuff instead of food. This also happens to me when I'm not hydrated enough. Drink lotsa water!
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: You should see a doctor about being hypoglycemic. I am the same way, i use a glucose meter regularly to prevent myself getting to that point. Peanut butter crackers works miracles. You need protein and carbs
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: Your respirations, or breaths in and out, become more shallow and rapid (ex. Hyperventilating). This causes your oxygen (good air) levels to drop, and your carbon dioxide (bad air) levels in the blood to rise. Blood sugar at this time is obsolete (irrelevant). Next time you feel angry, try to focus on slowing down your breaths. You will not get nauseous. 

Edit: Holy shit I read this wrong. Hungry not angry. I wondered why everyone was getting so off topic. Agree with first comment. Your blood sugars are not consistent. If you keep glucose levels...uh, level throughout the day you should never have that feeling. In other words, eat small meals every 2-3 hrs, even if you are fat. And don't freaking starve yourself. It's lame.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: Cause your stomach is trying to digest your stomach.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: Another reason is that your gut produces very powerful contractions in a starved state, trying to squeeze out every little bit of food in your system. This causes the rumbling feeling. Also you would be hypoglycemic, causing your brain to not get the supply it's demanding, making you lightheaded. Along with that, in a starved state your body starts to break down fat and protein, changing the pH of your blood. All those reasons and a lot of other metabolic changes cause you to feel sick.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: This used to happen to me all the time, multiple times a day. And occasionally I would actually puke. I was eating every hour or so to make sure I was never hungry because whenever I got hungry I would almost instantly get nauseous. Turns out I was hyperthyroid and my metabolism was way too fast for my body. I'm now at normal levels of TSH, T4 and T3 and haven't had a problem since!
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: Can someone tell me why this never happens to me? I can starve myself to the point where you pass that hunger stage and you just forget about it but I've never, EVER, felt nauseous because of it.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: I always thought it was because your stomach in anticipation of food starts producing more acids to digest and the acid makes you feel pukey.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: I get this feeling right when I wake up. Then I drink my coffee and I am good for another 2 hours or so.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: What would be the best way to combat this without eating? 

Before anyone expresses concern, I'm not asking bc I have an eating disorder or want to adopt any unhealthy habits, but I have been practicing intermittent fasting and occasional cleanses (which I enjoy and don't need anyone's opinion on) but my biggest challenge is that nauseous feeling. I'm not hungry, don't want to eat, enjoy fasting, but I end up eating just bc I am dry heaving through a shower in the morning. I'll usually drink some orange juice, which helps  &  now makes sense to me, but my main reason for fasting is to occasionally break a sugar/carb addiction, so it kinda defeats the purpose to have to eat something really sweet.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: FYI Caffeine impedes insulin, raising blood sugar, and also has an anorexic effect (in many people). If you consume caffeine without eating you're doubling the effects of the low-blood sugar crash, especially finding food disgusting.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: Someone correct me if I'm wrong here, but I always thought it was from both your blood sugar dropping and your stomach acids churning around in there.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: Glad someone ask this I always feel like puking if I get to hungry then i get really bad stomach cramps.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: It's probably because your digestive juices are starting to get irritated from not giving it food to break down.
question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when I get really hungry? answer: I would like to know why the same feeling occurs when I get really sleepy.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: There are several different types of touchscreens. The two that you're probably most familiar with are resistive and capacitive.

Resistive touchscreens, which are used in Nintendo's products and pre-iPhone PDAs and smartphones have flexible plastic screens. When you push on the screen, you squeeze multiple layers together and this completes an electric circuit.

Most modern smartphones use capacitive touchscreens. These touchscreens are made of glass. When you touch the screen with your hand, you distort the electric field in the screen and it can measure where that change took place. Insulators, like plastic or most fibers, won't distort the field so the screen won't recognize them. "Smartphone gloves" have metal fibers woven into the fingertips to make the screen notice them.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: The top answer is a great ELI5, but I'll see if I can go into more details while keeping it simple. 

So the most common form of touchscreens these days is "capacitive" touchscreens. What does that mean? That they use capacitors! Now capacitors are this weird thing where you can store electricity in two things that are *close but not touching*. 

The classical example is two metal plates separated by air. It turns out that the electric field between them can store energy, and the closer they are together, the more energy they store. 

The "plates" don't have to be metal, though, they can be anything conductive. Like skin!

So what your phone has is a bunch of half-capacitors. It has only one of the two conductive plates, and those plates are hidden behind the screen. The magic comes when you use your finger to be the *other half* of the capacitor!

So remember how I said that the closer the plates are to each other, the more energy they store? Your phone is constantly charging/discharging its plates (it has a big grid of them), and figuring out which take more energy to charge. Because the ones that take more energy have something conductive near them (your finger)!

As I said earlier, there's no contact between the two plates, so you don't have to be touching your phone for it to sense your finger. It's just calibrated at the factory so that you're *most likely* touching it when it notices a "tap". 

Likewise, other conductive things will work. Sausages are a good example, but metal coins will work too (careful about scratching your screen, though). 

They really are a pretty cool piece of technology, I hope this explanation helped.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: Have you ever touched your finger to a stereo plug?

It gives a little hum when it is in contact with your skin, that you don't get when you touch it to a table, for example.

The electrical **Capacitance** of a human body is very particular.

Imagine that you have a Battleship board, with these little plugs sticking out, instead of the pegs.

Each is connected to a stereo labelled with the coordinates of the plug. When someone touches it, you can tell if they're using their body, based on whether it hums.   
You can tell where they're touching it, based on which stereo makes the hum.

This is essentially how "Capacitive" touch phones work, except that you can't see the plugs, and there are a lot more of them, than there are on our Battleship board.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: On top of this, why do rain drops on the screen make me phone freak out?
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: To answer your largely-ignored second question, it definitely doesn't know if you're using your finger.

--
Source: My dick.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: [Here's](_URL_0_) an excellent video that explains it.

TL;DW: When electricity flows through a wire, it creates an electric field around it. When your finger comes close to the wire, some of that charge transfers to your finger and causes the voltage in the wire to decrease. Smartphone screens have a grid made of wires, and when you touch the screen, you phone can figure out the coordinated of where you tapped by looking at which horizontal wire had a voltage drop and which vertical wire had a voltage drop
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: Reading through a lot of these comments are wrong so I just want to clear things up. There are no electrical contacts at all and it has nothing to do with electrical signals from your muscles. 

Capacitive touch is simply a flat piece of metal. By rapidly charging and discharging this plate and measuring the charge/ac current you can determine the capacitance. This single plate does not have much capacitance by itself. When you bring a finger close to this plate you increase the capacitance of the plate by creating an electro static field between your finger and the plate. 

A touch screen has rows and columbs of long thin plates. When you bring your finger to the screen you are increasing the capacitance of 2 seperate plates a row and a columb. But you are also increasing the capacitance of neaboring plates. Your phone may only have 40 rows and 30 columbs but it can determine where your finger is between plates. So say your finger is halfway between row 25 and 26 and directly on column 16. Your phone would measure 3 plates having a significantly higher capacitance compared to the other 67.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: Is this at all similar to those novelty plasma balls?
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: Depends on the touchscreen. However most work through a very simple mechanism, regardless of their differences.

Ever see a grid? Like grid paper. Now imagine the grid itself was wires instead. Now imagine they are all separated from each other, so all the wires going horizontal are above the ones going vertical. 

If you pushed down on the paper in a certain spot, the top wires contact the bottom. However only in a very specific spot, so the phone sees a signal or a circuit sent down Horizontal 15, and comes back on vertical 15, thus it knows the position is 15,15.

That's pretty much it. The wires are extremely thin, can't see them and or in some cases screen is above them. Sometimes it's an impact screen where literally pushing two layers together makes contact, or it's capacitive (Most touch screens in phones) where the layers are in contact and always charged, and your finger near the screen has it's own magnetic field, the closer to the wires changes the circuit, so the phone sees a disturbance and recognizes 15,15 is the best location for where you are hitting. They seem to be both more accurate and best to use.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: There are millions of tiny people standing on the screen. Holding cards of color. When you touch them, they flip the card to the right color .
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: related question, why does it often seem that cracking my screen, even severely, not have any effect on its touch accuracy?
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: Was it explained how touch screens work in *glove mode*? It seems to register pressure, like *blah* explained in resistive touchscreens. I've used it, but its accuracy is wonky.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: I would like to ask a (probably) related question: how does a wacom pen and tablet work?
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: Capacitive sceens work by measuring your body's capacitance. 

Capacitance is how much charge your body can store. Different materials have different capacitance. Also depending if the are grounded or not.

When you approach your finger to a positively charged plate the electrons in your body are attracted to that body and move to that area. Now if you have that plate connected to electronics that can measure the micro disturbances in the plates you can determine if the capacitance of the object close to the plate. By calibrating those electronics now have a sensor that knows if there is an object with capacitance of a finger close or away from the plate. Now if you make the plate small enough and put a grid of them **under** a glass panel you know under which sensor there is a finger and under in what there is not. The rest is software.

In reality the sensors actually used are more complicated but they are still sensors that measure the capacitance of the object on the other side of a glass.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: There are many different types of technology but I'll just explain the most common type that is in almost all phones.

There is a nearly invisible grid of wires imbedded in the screen. Half the wires go side to side and the other half go up and down. Where these wires overlap they come very close to touching but don't quite touch.

A tiny amount of electricity is applied to each of the lines going in one direction (the up-down lines for example) many times a second. These are the "Send" lines.

When a finger touches the screen it forms a grounding effect that pulls some of the electricity from the sending wire and some of that ends up on the wire going in the other direction.

A chip measures the amount of electricity on those lines going in the other direction (the "Read" lines) many times a second. When it sees a spike of electricity it knows that the line that it read from was touched. Because each "Send" line is charged differently it is also able to tell which line the electricity started on.

Now that it knows the two lines going in each direction it knows where on the screen the touch happened.
question: How does a touchscreen work?And how does it know if you're using a finger or not? answer: Fun fact: if you turn your phone screen off and hold it at an angle with a bright light shining on it (like the sun), you can see the little grid that pinpoints your touchy-bits 

Also your body gives off a small electrical charge, which is what's used to disrupt capacitive phone screens when touched.
question: Why is Poland poor, while its next door neighbor Germany is one of the richest in the world? answer: For the last hundred plus years poland has been passed around like a whore between every european empire during every european conquest. It's sad but they can't get free. 

East Germany was poor as shit when they were under the red flag. They are still worse off.
question: Why is Poland poor, while its next door neighbor Germany is one of the richest in the world? answer: They have histories. Poland had a democracy where each member of the legislature could veto any law. Poland got conquered a lot. They could not even build a large defensive army without a veto.

More recently Poland was conquered by Nazi Germany, then by the Soviet Union defeating Nazi Germany. Communists ruled it for years following dictates from Moscow. This was not good for Poland.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: It's so companies and organizations like the Komen Foundation can line their pockets duping people into thinking they've done something towards research by using their services or buying their products because they're pink.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: There was a time when women were too ashamed to talk about their breasts in public. It was very shameful to talk about breast cancer. Since no one spoke about it women didn't know what to watch for and they would only seek medical help when it was much too late. 

The first celebrity to go public with a breast cancer diagnosis was Judy Holliday. If you don't know who she is look up her movies, she's a delightful and skilled comedic actress. She lost her life to breast cancer, but not before she spoke out about signs and symptoms on every television program she could. Makeup maven Estee Lauder was also touched by breast cancer. She started the original ribbon campaign.

The awareness campaign was started by women suffering from breast cancer who knew that if they had known what to look for they would have gotten treatment years earlier, and maybe not died of it. They took a taboo subject and got everyone talking about it.

Then the corporations saw dollar signs. 

edited because I can't spell.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Breast Cancer is a form of cancer that is incredibly treatable if caught early, and not so much if not. So if you can remind women to check themselves regularly you can save a lot lives.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Touchy subject, here are my thoughts:

- Breast cancer is neither the most common, nor the most dangerous form of cancer, but it is very easy to market. As /u/chefgrinderMcD mentions, how many other cancers have a specific awareness month?
- It's a [huge form of income](_URL_2_) for the various 'charities' that rake in billions every year, and they don't necessarily [spend](_URL_3_) it in an [appropriate](_URL_5_) manner. Heck, all of these 'fun runs' [cost money](_URL_4_) to organise, too.
- My personal concerns don't just stem from larger charities either, to me it seems like every man and his dog want to set up their own charity, which is causing [unnecessary fragmentation](_URL_0_). I mean, why start another charity when there are already [1357204867208956](_URL_1_) in existence?

This just turned into a sleep-deprived rant of sorts, but I did too much copy/pasting to delete it. Maybe it'll be useful to someone.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Anytime we do anything to raise "awareness", it functions to increase awareness of the cost of and necessity of research.

It's main goal is to gather donations with the ideal of funding research for cures/vaccines/surveillance of the illness. 

Like those above me said, there are some companies who are using this to make a quick buck so be careful about who you choose to donate to! 

[Charity Navigator] does a great job at outlining which charities will give you the best return on your money! (_URL_6_)
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Well, we all know about it because of awareness campaigns!  If those campaigns stopped, people might actually stop thinking about it.

That said, Komen for the Cure are outrageous assholes who have perfected the art of profiting from awareness campaigns.  They will sue you for using "for the cure" or anything similar in *your* awareness campaign, or even just the color pink, because *they* get the money from your awareness purchases.  Komen for the Cure isn't doing much to fight breast cancer *financially* -- don't donate to them!  But they have been effective in raising awareness, which is good in general.

A good awareness campaign was the ALS ice bucket challenge.  You didn't need to pay anyone to do it (other than ice and bucket providers, I guess) and you would donate directly to research instead of to professional awareness campaign managers like Komen.  But if you ever see some company spending vast amounts of resources for a charitable cause with no obvious source of funding, you should be asking yourself where the company gets the money, and more often than not, it's enriching itself under the guise of "awareness" (which, again, is a worthwhile thing to have).
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: It's a bunch of people fund raising to pay their salaries, and a lot of manufacturers getting in on a great advertising ride.
A lot like some of the other non-profits really. They don't do anything, can't actually help anyone, all they do is raise money for awareness. 
People have been spoon fed this Pink Ribbon Campaign for so long they don't even question it.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: literally everybody knows about this. It's a circlejerk amongst women who want to pretend they're helping without actually donating any money
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: I have to seriously question any charity that commits more than zero dollars to the "Raising Awareness " line item of their budget. As the Ice Bucket Challenge proved campaigns for awareness cost nothing.   
As for breast cancer specifically, the reason it seems so prevalent is just the marketing, as far as cancers go it is nowhere near the most deadly, nor most common, but it IS the most marketable. And has the most successful marketing plan, think about it, how many "specific cancer" months can you name most of the big ones have a month but none with the prevalence of breast cancer. Women in the USA make far more purchasing decisions than Men so it is not a stretch to think that buying power hasn't reached to charitable endeavors as well. So breast cancer has high visibility, and I'm not saying that's a good or bad thing, just that it, is, a thing.
The fact of the matter is that raising breast cancer awareness can be an effective vehicle for general awareness of all cancers. And if you are looking for a worthy charity to donate to I recommend finding a local one that focuses on improving lives of actual people with disease. Donations to fraudulent groups like Komen are just lazy.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Us triple negative breast cancer researchers do like when people care. This also makes investors fund projects. Even as a student where I see no money I need it to buy breast cells, media, pipettes, materials to synthesize our cancer drug, etc.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Yeah, as many people have echoed in this, my concern is that the money is not getting allocated the way that donors are hoping/expecting. 

For example, the NFL spends untold millions presumably to make all the equipment and advertisements pink on given weeks. Every player has pink cleats, towels, socks. Billboards are pink. All the TV ads are pink related. What if...we just gave all that money towards an organization that studies cancer? And just didn't have the pink stuff?
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: It's not that people don't know about it, it's that they don't really think about it. "Raising awareness" gets people to think about it and considering donating.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Man it's a massive scam.  Someone posted on Reddit a few weeks ago about the NFL pink campaign only contributing something like 4% of the money to the actual foundation, and less than a quarter of that 4% goes to actual cancer research.  So yeah, don't buy any of that shit.

Also, the idea of yearly mammograms ha actually been contested by recent research as there is some evidence breast exams may aggravate breast tissue and actually cause breast cancer.  Not going to hear that from the link campaign which is of course pushing for more exams.  What a world...
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: _URL_7_
This guy goes into detail as to how much money actually goes to research for breast cancer.
Been on reddit before just wanted to put it out there again.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Not entirely relevant, but its surprising how poorly informed on diseases and how they're developed some people are. My ex's parents thought smoking didn't cause lung cancer, all while keeping the father on frequent oxygen tanks while smoking. 

The oddest part was that everyone else in the family was totally aware of the fact. Sometimes raising awareness just needs to get people to talk about it.

The father hasn't stopped yet, though. Now that he knows.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: People are aware of it at this point and it's so ingrained that pink= breast cancer awareness. We got it...
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: I'll say something other than the conspiracies (however much truth there may be) here.

Awareness is so much more than making someone aware of beat cancers mere existence. Awareness is about knowing and recognizing the signs in yourself and others, so that the disease can be detected early, and thus be more easily treated.

For example, I bet most people who have heard of breast cancer haven't heard of Inflammatory Breast Cancer. It's a rare form of breast cancer that forms in sheets instead of lumps. By the time it's detectable as a misshapen breast, is usually already at stage 4.

Another example is that men can and do get breast cancer. Most men don't realize this, and would have absolutely no idea how to monitor for it. That's another part of awareness: knowing who is at risk.

Most people only know that lumps = breast cancer. But there are many kinds that manifest in different ways. Awareness helps (or should) people understand more about the disease, not just make them aware that it exists. This should be the case for most cancers, but breast cancer gained traction due to its prevalence in modern America, and organizations like SGK getting the word out.

P.S. Try not to throw the baby out with the bathwater when talking about breast cancer awareness. There are shady people trying to profit off it, sure, but there are also a lot of people out there who this cause is very important to, and are trying to help with nothing but the best intentions.

My sisters and I are considering starting a charity for IBC awareness and research, in honor of our mother who died from it. We've already hosted a few fundraisers whose proceeds were donated to the American Cancer Society. There are people out there trying to help. I'm one of them.

TL;DR: Awareness means knowing who is at risk, why, and recognizing signs of multiple forms of the disease. It's not meant to simply make you aware of the diseases existence.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: There are a lot of highly voted aggressive neckbeard comments. While they we not entirely incorrect in facts, they are false in the response to the question. 

The main reason is awareness and clarity. People don't get checked. They get cancer and then it's too late. If you get frequent checks you might prevent cancer or find it at a point that it can be removed. Terminal cancer is often found too late and could have been prevented. 


Since the awareness month and company campaigns, breast cancer deaths HAVE went down, and prevention has went up. That result is good and has saved the life's of your mothers, sisters, and wife's. 

So what if komen pays its ceo 85% of all the earnings. Some companies focus on awareness and the promotion of the message instead of actual research and that does result in life's saved. All it takes is that pink shirt or commercial to get that stubborn woman to get a check. Plenty of other companies over pay their CEOs and higher up while doing nothing for the community and saving no life's.

Look at the positives, and if you know the facts, donate to different charities like the research programs themselfs but don't ask for the abolishment or harass the ones like komen, because without them we have a lot less awareness and advertisement. You can have the best researchers with the most funding on the world but without awareness they have no one to cure.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: As a breast cancer survivor (at least for now), the Komen campaign for breast cancer awareness has made me hate the month of October.  31 days of non stop pink and give for the cure bs.  Truth is the same amount of women die from BS today as 30 years ago.  No where close to a cure.  They do fund some things like mammos for poor women but the amount of money spent by people buying pink stuff is way more than is spent on research.

I truly wish they would make a rainbow ribbon for ALL cancers so there would be no favortism because really, all this fundraising hasn't really helped those who have/had it.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: There was a time when people with certain diseases were seen as weak, or generally lesser people. A lot of the awareness stuff just kind of normalizes this. It lets people know that survivors are people you know. They are your family, coworkers, classmates, people all around you. They can lead valuable lives. We should not forget about them, and we should not look down on them either.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Seems like there are many cynics out here. It's true there are many parasitic organizations that capitalize on our charity and good will, but the fact is that breast cancer is one of the many cancers where death is preventable if caught in early stages. This is alongside cervical (get your pap smears at 21 ladies, and HPV vaccines for everyone), prostate for men (older men should do digital rectal exams), and of course lung (stop smoking). It's a little unfair to say that breast cancer is the only one getting awareness when all these other cancers are also getting attention. I think breast cancer was the first big movement because you are able to do a self-exam and that is empowering to women, so it is now the biggest (btw the main reliable screening tool is regular mammographies, so self-exams are a start, but not sufficient). 

Just to provide a scale of the problem, more than 50% (a half!) of women will develop a benign breast lesion. Fortunately most of these are not lethal and should not progress to a malignancy. More than 10% of women will develop a true malignancy, where your odds of survival are almost exponential the earlier you catch it. So it's kind of important to make it common knowledge how to find a lump in your breast, because there's a chance that it might kill you. 

That's not to deny the aforementioned parasitic organizations. I guess the best advice is find a good charity of your choice and ignore the bad ones, but don't hate on the movement as a whole because it is trying to make a difference for the American public.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: It's actually a symptom of a larger problem with some charities and social organizations. Many of these organizations form to combat a real problem, with a noble goal. They get donations, hire a staff, and all work hard toward it. But then the taboo is broken, the awareness is raised, and it becomes a part of society. 

But now what do you do with the organization they built up? For something like breast cancer awareness, their mission is complete. The public at large knows about it, and pays attention to the changing recommendations about it. But are they going to just tell their staff "Alright everybody, we won! Show's over, you're all fired." Of course not - The people working here will "Goal creep" and look for new things to do to legitimize their organization. The benefit now is to them, to sustain their own organization. It doesn't really serve much of a public good anymore, which is why you see all the hatred for it from those who have researched it.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: A lot of it is for commercial reasons - breast cancer research is "big money", even if we really aren't any closer to developing a cure than we were 60 years ago. I'd have to try and find the link, but I think I remember reading that only a small percentage of the money raised even goes to research. Most of it goes to advertising and the millions of dollars worth of salaries for the higher-ups. There was an infograph I saw on ifuckinglovescience about a year ago that showed the deadliest diseases versus how much funding they received. Breast cancer may have just barely broken the top 5 of deadliest diseases, yet it received about 6 times more funding than the leading killer disease. Here's the graph:

_URL_8_
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: At this point it's just slacktivism, people feel like they've made a difference when they put a ribbon magnet on their car.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Does Coke advertise because some folks don't know about them?  It's about constant reminders of something people already know about.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: The Komen Foundation is getting a lot of flak ITT, as they should, but I think most people are not answering your question, which might be better understood as, "Why does the Komen Foundation behave as it does?" It is because of the difficulty of funding non-profit organizations.

As you might be aware, most non-profit organizations have to divide their resources between administration and their cause. What you might not be aware of is that a lot of the administrative costs go toward finding more funding. Unless a non-profit has a stable stream of income from committed donors, grants, or an endowment, every non-profit is in constant pursuit of more sources of revenue. This often means hiring a professional grant writer and hosting some sort of open house or gala that informs and solicits donors. Even stable non-profits will probably be constantly pursuing more revenue to further their cause and expand their programs.

The Komen Foundation decided to try a for-profit marketing campaign in order to get revenue. The people they hired advised them to have an ambitious advertising campaign with the justification that it would bring in a lot more revenue than it cost. It cost a ton of money but it was wildly successful, so they have kept it up and followed those strategies. 

The obvious downside is that an inappropriately large percentage of their budget goes toward marketing, which increases awareness but does not create a cure. The upside however, is that they have raised more funds for their cause than they would have otherwise.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: its a feel-good charity. thats the bottom line. its so people can put on a little ribbon and feel good about donating a few dollars every month or something like they are trying to help people. its the slightly more expensive version of sharing a post for the troops, or changing your profile picture to a rainbow so that everyone knows how progressive and accepting you are since its a pretty safe position to be in since very few actually oppose it. 

they use that feeling people get to sell it as an addition to branding. see how much yoplait cares? buy our shit and we'll put a cent from every 10 sold to raising awareness so that more people will care enough to buy our product and help support raising awareness so that more people will  care enough to.....

you get the point. anything about raising awareness seems incredibly stupid and useless. most of the issues that have groups about raising awareness everyone knows the point already, its just a way for people to pat themselves on the back.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: A lot of the money that is donated towards these organisations are often used on marketing in order to raise even more money, sadly its a pitiful amount of what is donated that goes into research or even treatment. The majority is spent within the company, on various expenses. 

Just the last few years the Komen foundation withdraw support from Planned parenthood, and the only support they gave was mammograms the thing the Komen foundation is trying to battle. And on top of that Karen G Komen earns 684,000 dollars a year that seems like one hell of a lot of money for a non profit organisation.

I refuse to support them anymore, untill they straighten out their act i wont donate, if Karen G Komen went down to a small pitiful sallary like say 60,000 dollars a year that wouldnt bother me, but over half a million a year for doing what? having your name on a non profit organisation that makes you rich, fuck off bitch i hope you catch fire and die.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: This is a two-fold answer for me.  

1: 'Awareness' is a euphemism for money.  Ideally research money, but people make a profit on the research as well.  When you say you are raising money, it puts people off.  When you say you are raising awareness, people are more likely to be involved because their is not cost.


2:  Saying you are raising awareness allows people who make no physical contribution to feel like they are doing something important, when all they are doing is sharing something on social media. They are "raising awareness" and pat themselves on the back, when really they are just being arm-chair activists.  That is not a bad thing.  You can't make concrete contributions to every cause, so promoting others is good, but too often I think people believe if they click 'like', they are doing something other than easing their conscience.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Putting aside any ulterior motive companies that may or may not profit from, my literal eli5 would be:

Reminding people of a problem that many people face may seem bad, but reminding them that they should check the area regularly, can help fix* the problem sooner.
Like when adverts remind us to fill in tax returns, we all know about it but can easily ignore it. So being reminded will keep it in out minds to do it sooner.
It also helps make it less scary for some people, knowing that their not alone and others that may not be in their situation can talk knowledgeably or aid helpfully.

(*'fix' is subjective, but this is eli5. 'Not die' is best outcome of worst case)
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: It's partly because of pandering. There are many types of cancer that affect both sexes that are more prevalent and deadlier than breast cancer but it's a way for people to show support for womens causes and so it gets a lot of attention. 

Prostate cancer is just as deadly and many men die from it each year yet very little is done about it from a fundraising perspective. This can be argued because it's a cancer that affects privileged men VS under privileged women. Supporting womens causes is seen as progressive. Supporting mens causes or equal right causes is seen as misogynistic to some. To put it another way, all the hype around breast cancer awareness is just a kind of reverse sexism.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: It's billions of dollars. Raising awareness comes down to three things: 1) collect more money 2) fly all over the world with rich accommodations at 5 star resorts, personal drivers, lavish meals all paid for by your donated dollars 3) suing anyone and everyone who uses a shade of pink too similiar (within 10 shades) of their own, or uses the word "cure" in anything.

A certain pink charity spends more money every year suing people for trademark transgression that most charities have to spend each year on their mission. Their CEO makes somewhere just shy of $750,000 a year
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Two things

People do donate more to causes that they see. We all know what mcdonalds is, why do they advertise?  It's similar logic to that.  Everyone knows what breast cancer is, but you're more likely to donate if its shoved in front of your face.

Two things:

Charities make money, they run a lot of things that give no money to actual research, but can still say they are donating to the cause of increasing awareness.  This seems lame but is one of the reasons that "awareness" is talked about so much.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Was developing a website once that wanted to include the breast cancer awareness pink branding mumbo jumbo. When we contacted them about involving them in the site they immediately began the discussion by saying there would legal action of we used it without their permission and to get their permission we had to guarantee $10,000.00 in donations each month. If donations didn't reach that level the company had to make up the balance. 

Shook my head and laughed, never spoke to them again. Felt very dirty dealing with them.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Big cancer is one of the most profitable industries. They employ mostly volunteers, produce little in the means of ribbons, flyers, and shirts. Probably their biggest overhead is commercials and other advertising. The pink breast cancer ribbon campaign you're speaking of donates a very small percentage of their profits. I've read as little as 3%. It's not about perpetual awareness as much as it is perpetual profits. These "charities" should be audited quarterly and their giving should be made public.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: All cynicism aside, it's like most advertising.  Does anyone not know about McDonalds or Pappa Johns at this point?  No, but they need reminding to invest money in their products.  Similarly, these "awareness" efforts are to promote a cause and ask you to invest money (donating to research or testing ideally) or effort (getting yourself tested) into the cause. 

As silly as the "Ice Bucket Challenge" was, there was a sharp rise in donations to ALS societies from that campaign.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: As with everything, it's all about money sadly. Also If I want to donate I will donate to an actual research facility, or to cancer patients themselves, not some for profit company. Plus everyone(in the us at least) knows about breast cancer in women. Since these campaigns only are about spreading "Awareness", they need to start spreading awareness about men with breast cancer. Which I've literally never heard and of the big companies bring up.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: I don't know if you're a comedy fan or not, but Doug Stanhope actually has a great bit about charities and "raising awareness". It was in his special, Beer Hall Putsch. Basically, he talks about how a lot of these charity awareness-raising organizations only donate like a fraction of a cent of their proceeds towards actual research, and the rest is spent on more promotional material and salaries for the bosses.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Profits. Most organizations that "raise awareness" keep the money while donating about 1% of raised funds to actual research. Remember these companies do not care about a cure. They are in cahoots with Big Pharma who will openly admit they are not in business to find cures, but rather create medicines to offset symptoms that will require people to use their medicine for the rest of their lives.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: For the Breast Cancer cause, their biggest friend is visibility. These endorsements by, say, the NFL, bring in a lot of money for them. And political clout.

Some Breast Cancer charities go as far as [trying to shut down other, smaller cancer charities, for infringing on their copyright.](_URL_9_) The Susan Komen Foundation is trying to shut local charities down for using the word "Cure" .
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: There is a huge financial benefit. You should see the salaries paid at the Susan G. Komen foundation. Good rule of thumb if a charity spends a good portion of its money "raising awareness" they are pretty damn close to a scam. We are not going to cure cancer by telling somebody about especially when everybody already knows about it.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: There's a huge financial benefit, just not always for breast cancer.  I try to only buy from or donate to causes that I know will actually give the money to research and treatment.  it's hard to actually find out if those companies are legit or not (I am not a fan of komen for this very reason).
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: It's the oldest form of karma-farming.

Start a 'foundation' with a tear-jerker rationale. Set yourself as the director with a fat salary. Pass-along residual donations to 'The Cause'. Try to keep your salary 80-90% of foundation income. Everyone thinks you are a swell dude, but you are really just a con man.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: The same reason there's a retail financial industry. The same reason there's religion. Because there's a limitless supply of interest from people who are terrified about their health, looking for something, anything they can do about it, even if the right answer is far simpler than what's on offer.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Well, with the pink NFL garbage its all about revenue, almost nothing is donated. With the pink ribbon "for the cure" pennies from every dollar are donated, the majority goes to salaries and advertising and marketing. 

If you want to actually help, don't give your money to "charities".
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: Raising awareness doesn't mean that you are literally telling someone that something exists.

It is to remind people that something exists and that there are things they can do (in this case donate money, check themselves for lumps, have regular checkups at the doctor... )
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: [Here](_URL_10_) is the wikipedia section on the Susan G Komen Foundation's use of funds. Make of it what you will. [Here](_URL_11_) is the section on the same page that details how they have sued other charities over trademarks. Make of it what you will.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: its like how on reddit you always see stuff about climate change as if there are people on reddit that dont know cars and shit are bad for the environment, people just wanna feel superior to everyone else
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: There's an excellent documentary called Pink Ribbons, Inc. which goes really in-depth on this topic. Production values aren't great but it makes up for it in accessibility and content.

Used to be on Netflix, it still might be.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: I'm actually very disappointed that "public awareness" doesn't seem to give a shit about skin cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, bone marrow cancer in comparison. I wonder what the funding/charity disparity is.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: I'm all for raising awareness of cancer......ALL cancers.  Breast cancer gets a disproportionately large % of the attention.  Kormen will never get a nickel from me.
question: What's the reason for the perpetual raising of awareness for breast cancer? Is there some commercial benefit? Does anyone out there really not know about it at this point?[removed] answer: "Awareness" in this case is just a different word for "give me money" perpetuated by mostly shady non profit hustlers.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: They built them in air, not underwater. First they blocked off the water around where they were going to dig and build using what are called Cofferdams or Caissons made of pile driven wood or stone and pumped out by bucket, dug the foundation and built to the water line and then removed the temporary structure. Pressurized versions are relatively new but can go deeper but the original idea is almost 2 millennia old and would have been used for major bridges during that time.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: The Roman architect Vitruvius tells us that in order to lay the foundations and supporting pillars the Romans would construct water tight vessels, rather like barrels. These were made of wood bound by metal. In order to provide water resistance the barrels could be lined with pitch or clay. By lowering these into the river it was then possible to divert the water from the place of work in order to dig down to build foundations. The foundations could be lain directly onto hard rock if it was found or onto wooden piles driven deep into the river bed. This last solution is relatively durable as is demonstrated by the result achieved with Venice. The wet mud and the lack of oxygen prevents the action of the bacteria which would in other cases destroy the wood.

Once the foundations had been laid the bottom portion of the pillar could be built within the "barrel" and from there brought up to the required height above the water level by means of scaffolding. As already described, the arches would be built by creating a truss to support the work until the arch had been spanned.

The Romans were also VERY good at pouring concrete underwater. In fact, as far as resiliency against wear and resistance to crushing, their concrete was hands down better than modern concrete. One doesn't often think about concrete being able to cure underwater, but it works perfectly fine, albeit it takes a lot longer.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: Do realize that in some cases depending on the body of water like a river, they may divert the river further up river so that they were actually dealing with a dry bed while the water went by in a bypass.  This is a technique that we continue to use today when working on water in certain areas if practical.

Other building techniques they probably used was to create wooden frames, drop them down into the water (using ladders to get down inside) and then as they build they can float up the frame to rise with things and thus when you are finally at surface level you now have a solid base without having to actually get into the water.  This is a technique they used with pressurized frames with even some of the bridges and such they've built over the the last few centuries as well.

Not easy to find much on this but just thinking thru what they had materials wise to build such things based on the time and technology involved.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: There's a book by Ken Follet called World Without End which incorporates a lot of medieval building and most particularly the building of a stone bridge. It gives intricate and detailed information about this exact thing. It's also a great story. The first book is about Cathedral building and is called Pillars of Earth. They made a show of it which is also on Netflix.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: Another way that this was done was via boats! In the Persian Empire, Xerxes used a series of boats to bridge the Hellespont to get to Greece. After anchoring them and stringing them all together he built a bridge OVER them and marched the largest army the world had seen at that time over it! The bridge also held for multiple years while his campaign in Greece lasted, and he crossed back over it without a hitch in his retreat!
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: I read in a book that they pretty much built a square stone wall around the area they wanted a pillar, made it water tight and used buckets to drain it. then they put in their logs/stone and had themselves supports. Have no idea if this is true tho.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: They just built a bridge, and it sank into the water. So they built a second one. That sank into the water. So they built a third. That burned down, fell over, then sank into the water. But the fourth one stayed up.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: I don't have the full details, but concrete that set underwater had long been a thing by medieval times. One of its most famous users in the ancient world was King Herod the Great, Mr. "Kill the firstborn child of every household." He is famous as one of history's greatest builders, and he constructed as many as half a dozen different structures which some historians have suggested were easily on a par with the wonders of the ancient world. He had a hand in the design of most of them.

His tomb complex is so massive that, despite knowing exactly where it is, we just found his body about 7 or 8 years ago. It covers hundreds of acres.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: When I first came here, this was all deep water. Everyone said I was daft to build a bridge in deep water, but I built in all the same, just to show them.  
It sank into the water. So I built a second one.  
That sank into the water.  
So I built a third. That burned down, fell over, then sank into the water.  
But the fourth one stayed up. And that's what you're going to get, Lad, the strongest bridge in all of England.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: OP, I learnt alot about the process of Ciassons by watching a documentary on Netflix titled; [Seven wonders of the industrial world, Season 1 "The Brooklyn Bridge"](_URL_0_). It's a 1 hour + documentary about the building of the Brooklyn Bridge using this process, the dangers that went with it, etc etc. I can't speak for the medevil times, but this process was still used as late as the 1800's


Modern era construction is simply not as amazing as what used to go on in the world, without the huge machines we use today. Quite amazing to learn about and worth the watch.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: How did they build bridges over massive crevasses?
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: Not medieval, but from the antiquity. 

Caesar commanded the building of a bridge across the Rhine (Rhein) to get into the Germanic tribes land. 

They Germans thought that the Romans would never come across the extremely deep and really wide stream. 

Caesar had the bridge done in 10 days. 

They used a raft to transport a tower like ramming machine to pound giant oak pillars angled into the river, then they built a bridge ontop.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: If you are interested in medieval building techniques, you should read Pillars Of The Earth and World Without End, they are a couple very good historical fictions with a strong emphasis on building.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: As you can see by the other comments, frequently they would build a water tight enclosure and force it to the bottom before emptying out the inside.

In other cases, where possible, they diverted the entire river temporarily to drain the bed by building dams. This was the case with the Hoover Dam. They basically drilled a new channel through some rock for the river to go then dammed up the usual path. Once the Hoover Dam construction was complete they blew up the temporary Dam they built and I believe they collapsed the alternate channel as well.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: They just dug a trench that connects to the river upstream and downstream, then blocked off the part where they wanted to build a bridge. Then, when the bridge was finished, they just let the water flow.  & nbsp;

This is also why you often see rivers around old castles: originally that was just a river, but they dug around, changed the flow, built a bridge, and removed the obstacle; that's how they made it loop around the building.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: As Brezz mentioned, cofferdams. You send a barge out and anchor it, and on the barge is a pile driver like a big hammer. They take timbers and pound them down into the sediment side by side like taking lincoln logs and sticking them in the mud in a circle. Sometimes they would even leave the pile driven logs and back fill the voids with stones in order to protect the bridge in case of contact with a boat.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: If you're interested in the story of how they built the Brooklyn Bridge in 1870: _URL_1_
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: A water-proof container(s) was first, put down to make the area that was going to have a support column placed, dry and able to be dug out further. I would imagine that since boats could be water-proofed, so could the support column, and then bricks and mortar would reinforce it. Place all of your support columns then build the bridge across it. This technique is more ancient roman, but I would imagine medieval Europe could do something somewhat similar.

The explanation isn't exactly like you are 5 but it's as simplified as I could manage.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: They built them in air, not underwater. First they blocked off the water around where they were going to dig and build using what are called Cofferdams or Caissons made of pile driven wood or stone and pumped out by bucket, dug the foundation and built to the water line and then removed the temporary structure. Pressurized versions are relatively new but can go deeper but the original idea is almost 2 millennia old and would have been used for major bridges during that time.....
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: Everyone said I was daft to build a castle on a swamp, but I built in all the same, just to show them. It sank into the swamp. So I built a second one. That sank into the swamp. So I built a third. That burned down, fell over, then sank into the swamp. But the fourth one stayed up.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: How do they even build bridge supports in deep water in the present day?
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: Read Pillars of the Earth. It's a great read and gives great insight on how these things were built. I never thought I would enjoy reading a book about building a church but it turned out to be a great read.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: i remember reading something about caesar when he invaded england using some kind of bad ass technique for building a bridge to england.  i dont remember the specifics anyone know what im talking about?
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: the first five answers in this thread when I clicked on it had 0 or fewer votes. This is not how ELI5 is supposed to work....

Seriously, minecraft vids?  fucking stupid, man.
question: How did they build Medieval bridges in deep water?I have only the barest understanding of how they do it NOW, but how did they do it when they were effectively hand laying bricks and what not? Did they have basic diving suits? Did they never put anything at the bottom of the body of water? answer: I know you asked about medieval bridges, but you should also check out [Roman concrete.](_URL_2_)
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: They're tasteless, but they aren't illegal. There's no reason for reddit's admins to start banning things they deem "tasteless" left and right.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Can somebody explain to me what r/greatapes is, so I don't have to damage myself by looking?
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Because not very many people know about them, so Reddit isn't losing any face and/or money over them. Get the mainstream national media to start reporting about either one of those subs constantly and they'll be banned before you know it.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Because I had no idea they existed until you mentioned it.  They arent illegal, and I dont have to go there if I dont want to.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: I'm sure they will be at some point. Probably once there's enough controversy.

The admins can more or less ban whatever subs they want.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Those aren't even debatable in terms of banning. Being racist isn't illegal and neither are having pics of dead kids.

Why not check out the 100+ other legal subreddits?

/r/PicsOfHorseVaginas[1] - /r/UrethraPorn[2] - /r/WTF_Wallpapers[3] - /r/WhichAnimalGenitals[4] - /r/fartporn[5] - /r/SpidersGoneWild[6] - /r/snotporn[7] - /r/whywouldyoufuckthat[8] - /r/hotdogporn[9] - /r/sexwithdogs[10] - /r/ratandmouseporn[11] - /r/rabbitporn[12] - /r/santaporn[13] - /r/sheepporn[14] - /r/coldporn[15] - /r/electricporn[16] - /r/burningporn[17] - /r/snooporn[18] - /r/flyingfuck[19] - /r/fuckingfish[20] - /r/picsofdeadpuppies[21] - /r/bananaporn[22] -/r/starvin_marvins[23] - /r/sexyabortions[24] - /r/deadcat[25] - /r/deadcats[26] - /r/catgore[27] - /r/picsofdeadkids[28] - /r/deadbabies[29] - /r/deadpeople[30] - /r/deathfap[31] - /r/beatingwomen[32] - /r/getinmyvanlittlegirl[33] - /r/spacedicks[34] - /r/gore[35] - /r/blasphemy[36] - /r/sodom[37] - /r/ectalprolapse[38] - /r/rape[39] - /r/daterape[40] - /r/picsofhorsedicks[41] - /r/squidsgonewild[42] - /r/DinoBalls[43] - /r/whalebait[44] - /r/niggers[45] - /r/whitenationalism[46] - /r/popping[47] - /r/BlogDelNarco[48] - /r/itas[49] - /r/rainbowbar[50] - /r/NSFW4[51] - /r/___ - /r/Picsofdeadponies[52] - /r/holyjesus[53] - /r/deathclub[54] - /r/necromancy[55] - /r/zombiebabes[56] - /r/necrololia[57] - /r/necrophilia[58] - /r/proteinmodels[59] - /r/BaconPorn[60] - /r/DaddyIssues[61] - /r/spaceclop[62] - /r/rule34[63] - /r/rapingwomen[64] -/r/beatingtrannies[65] - /r/misogyny[66] - /r/ChokeABitch[67] - /r/BeatingCripples[68] - /r/picsofdeadwhalebait[69] - /r/girlspooping[70] - /r/mantits[71] - /r/kittyporn[72] - /r/catporn[73] - /r/Penispaint[74] - /r/NKGW[75] - /r/picsofniggers[76] - /r/clopclop[77] - /r/deadbabyjokes[78] - /r/StruggleFucking[79] - /r/midgetsmut[80] - /r/GimpPorn[81] - /r/MorbidReality[82] - /r/farts[83] - /r/doppelbangher[84] - /r/tinydick[85] - /r/vomit[86] - /r/puke[87] - /r/poop[88] - /r/scatporn[89] - /r/horseshit[90] - /r/diapersgonewild[91] - /r/watersports[92] - - /r/fearme[93] - /r/robotporn[94] - /r/watchpeopledie[95] - /r/rapeisfun[96] - /r/fillyfiddlers[97] - /r/pee[98] - /r/peegonewild[99] - /r/watermelon[100] - /r/legoporn[101] - /r/shemales[102] - /r/BaguettesInButts[103] - /r/lawn[104] - /r/horsemask[105] - /r/horsemaskgw[106] - /r/nsfl[107] - /r/asslick[108] - /r/FRUITUNION[109] - /r/clownbutter[110] /r/ToasterRights[111] /r/ToastersGW[112] /r/Toasterovenclub[113] /r/picsofdeadtoasters[114] /r/toasterbait[115] /r/dragonsfuckingcars[116] /r/bitchimabus[117] /r/FuckYouImAShark[118] /r/Picsofryanrunning[119] /r/animalswithoutnecks[120] /r/birdswitharms[121] /r/TreesSuckingOnThings[122] /r/TreesSuckingAtThings
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: I'm not really pro racism and i dont really feel like looking at pictures of dead kids, but how can you want to ban something just because you dont like it? Dont visit those subs if you dont want to see it.

I went to /r/PicsOfDeadKids and checked some comments on top posts and it disgusts me how people just straight up hate the people who visit the sub

I saw one post with a really great answer as the top comment, you should check it out.

_URL_0_
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: The basic answer is that reddit doesn't want to ban it. Utlimately it's up to them, and they have a lot of things to consider. 

Speaking about why they don't want to ban it is a little more difficult. Ideologically I think they are against censorship, the exceptions being illegal content which could get them in trouble, or stuff that is bad for the website. Also, an important thing to consider is that censorship is very unpopular on the internet, and reddit's popularity is probably fairly fragile as far as that goes. They don't want to make their userbase angry by banning every unpopular subreddit (or even just offensive ones). This means they have to be very careful about when to ban subreddits, it took them quite a while to ban /r/jailbait and it is still a controversial decision. It's just kind of the way things go.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Actually read that as: great tapes  &  :pics of dead kids and got seriously confused.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Why isn't SRS banned when its obvious they break Reddit's rules by brigading?
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: This is the kind of question that's best answered with another question: Why should *any* sub be banned?
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Because Reddit isn't about banning what you, or I, or some people might find distasteful. At least in theory. Subreddits are only SUPPOSED to be banned if they do something illegal, violate privacy, or abuse Reddit's voting system. That said, some subreddits, like ShitRedditSays can get away with anything.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: These subreddits aren't handled by any sort of moral platform, just over a  strategy of "if they generate too much negative attention or create a substantial potential legal risk or risk to revenue, we drop the hammer"

It's the fairly mercenary outcome of their once idealistic policy on free expression.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Because the only things (as far as I can tell) are subs that will cause enough legal hassles as to endanger the site. Alleged child porn (or whatever /r/jailbait was) and the Fappening sites bring enough heat, right or wrong that the expense of defending them could cost more than the site has to spend on lawyers.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Because a certain amount of freedom of speech/expression is allowed on Reddit.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Because once we start enforcing morality to shut down people and places (who aren't actually doing anything illegal) that we don't agree with, we are no better than anyone else who does it.

Fuck your "morality." I'm GLAD that I am on a website where subs like that can exist. It means this place, to some extent, values the idea of freedom of speech.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Basically, lethargy or ineptitude on the part of the mods. Jailbait was legal but offensive so it was shut down. Niggers was legal but offensive so it was shut down. Picsofdeadkids is legal and still around. Why? Either the mods don't care or it's just because it hasn't received enough public outcry yet.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: With lack of better judgement, I just checked picsofdeadkids and I'm literally shaken. Whats even worse is the sadistic comments, fucking sickening.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: My stomach turns and I feel dread by just reading the name of that dead kids sub sheesh
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Because admins are focusing on subreddits that cost them and their partners potential revenue, like /KotakuInAction.
 
It's never about taste.  Never even about the rules.
 
Always, always, *always about money*.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: The potent combination of internet anonymity and free speech yields weird results.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: I feel dirty for clicking on these links. NSFL sort of stuff.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Look how popular /r/imgoingtohellforthis is. 

People dislike /r/coontown because they can point to it and go "those are the racists!", but when they can hide amongst fat women, downs syndrome, and muslim jokes, it gets diffused and "all is ok".

As an aside, while the comments in /r/coontown are fucking awful, the articles are real (news stories and whatnot) and they tend to be able to pull up a lot more numbers and facts than srs or r/blackladies, or the othrr SJW subs...
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Firstly, because they don't break any of Reddit's rules, and hence there is no conventional reason for banning them. Secondly, because they haven't drawn enough outside attention for the admins to decide they have to be banned to preserve Reddit's image (such that it is).
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Why would they be? They don't break any rules. They're just racist and tasteless. So they're fit in here perfectly.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: The fucking cumbox guy is a mod in picsofdeadkids. 

That shit is disgusting.
question: Why aren't subs such as r/greatapes and r/picsofdeadkids banned? answer: Because the somethingawful forums didn't decide they want those shut down yet.
question: - Credit Card Fraud. How did my credit card get used at a gas station? And a pharmacy? And a Target? 200 miles away.... When it is still in my wallet?How does this sort of fraud work? Where did they get the credit card number? How did they use it at these places without a physical card? Can anyone break down the process for me? I'm just curious. answer: At some point while you were out, the information on your credit card was copied. The attacker probably made a fake duplicate card, and then began making purchases elsewhere. Info in the magnetic stripe on cards is not encrypted, and can be easily read with a magstripe reader. The magnetic stripe contains the same information that is printed on the front of the card.

Last December, a large volume of credit card information was stolen from Target - this is on the large scale. It happens on the small scale also when a local business stores customer information in an insecure fashion. I've also heard stories of dishonest cashiers or waiters who have stolen customer card information to then sell it on the internet.

EDIT: Like the other replies said, definitely contact your credit card company and report the charges as fraudulent. They'll send you a new card and you won't be charged for the fraudulent purchases.
question: - Credit Card Fraud. How did my credit card get used at a gas station? And a pharmacy? And a Target? 200 miles away.... When it is still in my wallet?How does this sort of fraud work? Where did they get the credit card number? How did they use it at these places without a physical card? Can anyone break down the process for me? I'm just curious. answer: The card itself doesn't matter. It is the numbers on the card.
Account number, secret codes...

When you swipe it, the machine reads those codes and then charges your account. Here's the catch, if the machine can read it, a bad machine can be programmed to copy the codes. A criminal can then make their own card with your information and use it.

Think of your credit card like a book with all your codes/information. When you swipe it, it is like giving this book to someone to look it. If they're a good person, they just look at it and make sure it is your account. If they're up to no good, they will look at it, and make a copy of your book, so they can pretend they are you.

So again, the card doesn't matter. It is the information on the card. Once they get that information, they can print their own card with your information and can be used.

Now there are several security measures in place to help prevent this.

1. New cards have a 'chip' What this means is the information on the card changes. So right now, a code might have a value of 10. an hour later, it will have a value of 50. It makes it much harder to copy. If they just do a simple copy, they will only copy the 10. Their copy won't work an hour later.

2. Credit card companies do try and check purchases. So if they see a transaction in places 500 km away within 20 minutes... they could probably flag. Different credit card companies have different levels of security and technology to detect this. But they're working on it.

Just a note. Often times, security can by be bypassed for convenience.
For example, your credit work will still work even if the store is not connected to the credit card company. They will just store your information and then send it to the credit card company when it is connected again.
question: - Credit Card Fraud. How did my credit card get used at a gas station? And a pharmacy? And a Target? 200 miles away.... When it is still in my wallet?How does this sort of fraud work? Where did they get the credit card number? How did they use it at these places without a physical card? Can anyone break down the process for me? I'm just curious. answer: Just because someone doesn't have your physical card doesn't mean they didn't swipe it somewhere (or install a skimmer on an ATM or gas pump or something), then program your info onto a new card so they can swipe it elsewhere.
question: - Credit Card Fraud. How did my credit card get used at a gas station? And a pharmacy? And a Target? 200 miles away.... When it is still in my wallet?How does this sort of fraud work? Where did they get the credit card number? How did they use it at these places without a physical card? Can anyone break down the process for me? I'm just curious. answer: The American Credit card companies are really cheap and as a result, use an unsafe and outdated chip system that the rest of the world has moved on from.

RHID. It's a piece of shit.
question: - Credit Card Fraud. How did my credit card get used at a gas station? And a pharmacy? And a Target? 200 miles away.... When it is still in my wallet?How does this sort of fraud work? Where did they get the credit card number? How did they use it at these places without a physical card? Can anyone break down the process for me? I'm just curious. answer: Just a friendly reminder to all not to do this: _URL_0_
question: - Credit Card Fraud. How did my credit card get used at a gas station? And a pharmacy? And a Target? 200 miles away.... When it is still in my wallet?How does this sort of fraud work? Where did they get the credit card number? How did they use it at these places without a physical card? Can anyone break down the process for me? I'm just curious. answer: Several years ago I worked in a building that required a parking attendant. Well, apparently this one particular one was fired and then forced to work one final day. In that final day, she collected dozens of credit card numbers and went on a spending spree over the next two weeks. None of us noticed until our credit statements showed up. Boom, $2,000+ of charges on mine alone. Thankfully she was arrested. And all the charges were reversed on my card. She had great taste in items, though...
question: - Credit Card Fraud. How did my credit card get used at a gas station? And a pharmacy? And a Target? 200 miles away.... When it is still in my wallet?How does this sort of fraud work? Where did they get the credit card number? How did they use it at these places without a physical card? Can anyone break down the process for me? I'm just curious. answer: My more recent credit cards have a visible 'chip' and some stores, like Walmart, require you to insert the card and leave it in for a while.  This is much slower than just swiping it.  Is there really enough security advantage for the customer to be worth the extra time?
question: - Credit Card Fraud. How did my credit card get used at a gas station? And a pharmacy? And a Target? 200 miles away.... When it is still in my wallet?How does this sort of fraud work? Where did they get the credit card number? How did they use it at these places without a physical card? Can anyone break down the process for me? I'm just curious. answer: There's an excellent example of this here.
_URL_1_
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Children enjoy repetition. Stories, movies, food. If once was awesome, a million times is a million times awesomer!
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Kids minds are still understanding the world and are still learning how to process the information received, hence they appreciate repetition since it gives them the chance to catch up things they have missed the first time. When you tell the same story over and over again they discover new meanings to the story and they make new associations which is very exciting. That's why popular tv program for toddlers like Blue's clues Ana Dora the explorer are so damn repetitive repetitive.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: For the same reason you like to hear the same song more than once. You recognize the pattern and enjoy the prediction and affirmation of that prediction. Imagine living in a prehistoric era when everything was unknown! Will the sun rise again tomorrow (sun religion) will we find food next month (throwing spears at cave paintings of animals) will she get pregnant (the moon as the symbol for the divine feminine.) We crave prediction and when our guess arrives correctly we get an outstanding shot of brain chemicals that reinforces the belief (or experience.)


You KNOW when the chorus is about to begin, and man does it feel good to sing along! You KNOW James Bond isn't going to die during the first 20 minutes of a movie (because who wants to watch that?) but damn it feels good to be emotionally involved yet still feel good about the outcome.


Does he like green eggs and ham?? DOES HE! I MUST KNOW!!! Not really... I know that he will like them, and I want to enjoy the ability to be right about the future. He will like them. Trust me.


The last thing a kid needs is stress about a world full of insecurities and problems that have no answers. No one wants to hear about the troubling story of the middle east (will there ever be peace?) because we enjoy conclusions, and we LOVE the feeling of control and prediction; something completely lacking in the real world.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Have you tried asking said 5-year-old? They would probably explain it to you like they were 5.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: From my observation with reading books over and over again to my kids, they will apply something they learned that day to a book they've already heard a thousand times: "I know why the bunny hopped over the fence! He wanted to play with his friends just like how I wanted to play with my friends today but I can't because I'm sick." 

They learn so fast, that the same book is constantly changing and taking on new meaning to them, while being familiar and comfortable at the same time.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Next time encourage him to read it to you, especially if you think he knows it by heart, or read it together. Like he reads one page- you read the next.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Predictability is an oasis of calm in a huge world full of constant change.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Early Childhood teacher-in-training here. Learned in my Literacy class just last week about this. It's because of what they focus on. The first time reading, they'll usually ask a lot of questions. See the colors of the book. Feel it. Get an understanding of your voice. Each time you read it to them, they get a little better at reading it themselves. It's actually very beneficial to stick to one book for at least a month because they should be able to learn how to read with something they are familiar with loosely. 

My professor demonstrated with a video she captured of her son learning to read using a single book. The first time he read it, he wanted to play with the colors and kept turning the page before the book was finished. By the end of a month of reading it, he could read at least some of the words now and the others, he could figure out because of the rhymes and stuff. 

Kids actually do pick up on the fact that they are making progress. Your nephew doesn't feel "done" with the book yet. Either because he's missing something, or there might even be something in it he wants to talk about but doesn't know how to initiate that. Why not try asking him next time he reads it with you. Simple questions:

- What do you like about the book?
- If you wrote it, how would you want it to end?

If you are tired of it or something, you can also offer to find books similar to it. He might have developed an interest in the subject.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Why do adults buy boxsets of TV seasons they have already watched? They enjoy them, that story is his Season  < X >  of TV program  < Y > .
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: I study in Denmark, getting a pedagogue degree, its very very hard to translate into something meaningful, but means that im trying to become "A person who studies and practices the science of teaching." In all forms, also teaching a toddler to eat speak etc :)

Youngh children loves repetition because its the way they learn. Every time you read the story to the child, he will learn something new, you say he knows it by heart now, but its not only the story he is trying to learn, also the face expresions you make, how you pronounce the words and how you "act" a dialoge. 

Alot of parents forget this when they read out loud, its hard-work reading to children ! :)
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Children at that age are still learning the language.  Learning languages is hard, and repetition is a great way to learn new vocabulary.  By repeating the same books, each time, the child understands more, feels the sense of satisfaction of familiarity and success in the reading.  Repeated studies have shown the benefit of rereading the same books on increasing vocabulary and language fluency in children, and increased satisfaction of children in the repetition.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: Well not_trevor, I'll answer your question with another question: Why do you like listening to the same song over and over again?

That's why.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: I remember this from when -I- was five. 

My life was so chaotic and crazy and weird and everything was so new that it was a comfort to know this story was going to be exactly the same. The silly kitty was going to fall into the lake -after- confronting the angry cow. Then he was going to run into the barn and then out of the barn and meet the weird animals in the forest.

Whatever craziness my life throws at me, the story was going to be -exactly- the same always and that was a great comfort.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: You get pleasure from being able to predict a story. It's why every TV show is the same and they all have the same problems and issues to work through. And why reruns are so popular.
question: Why does my 5 year old nephew want me to read the same story over and over again. He almost knows it by heart by now. answer: He might enjoy your company, or something specific to you, e. g.: your emotion and inflection when reading, vs the babysitter that wishes she'd be anywhere but here with your nephew.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: The shock wave basically rapidly compresses your body and everything inside. Organs rupture, veins explode and even the eyes in your head can explode. And if that doesn't get you, rapid heating off the air can sear your air ways and cook you from the inside out. And then if that doesn't get you, there's debris (shrapnel).... indiscriminate pieces of rock, metal, and anything else slamming into and or tearing through your body. ..... All in all. .. something to avoid
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: You know how in movies when there's an explosion and people get thrown? That can happen from the shockwave. But, it's not lightly picking you up like a wind and 'blowing' you away. 

It's hitting you with the same amount of force as anything else would need to throw you that far. In essence, your internal organs are getting hit by a speeding bus, just the bus is invisible and the impact travels all the way through your body.  *edit your/you're shenanigans*
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: You have four ways to die from an explosion.

Primary injuries: the blast wave/shockwave. Others have explained it better than I could -- the explosion releases tons of energy and if your body is in the way of that wave of air molecules slamming into each other, anything fluid-filled or air-filled in you is going to be damaged. Organs will rupture. If the explosion is especially nasty, you won't die from the organ damage right away -- you'll die hours or days later from internal bleeding or infections stemming from your bowels rupturing. 

Secondary injuries: The shrapnel/debris. As the pressure from the explosion blows the bomb/whatever was holding it apart, it launches the fragments of those things everywhere. Not only can the shrapnel hit you in arteries or veins and cause you to exsanguinate or hit you and give you nasty head injuries, but they can also give you really gnarly infections if they're really dirty. 

Tertiary injuries: Also the blast wave/shockwave. If the blast wave/shockwave is powerful enough to propel you to the ground or against a wall/building/piece of furniture, you can get some bad spinal or head injuries that can kill you very fast, or kill you much, much later. 

Quartenary injuries: Basically anything else. If the bomb has harmful chemicals in it or a lot of smoke as a byproduct of the explosion, you can get injured or die from that; if the bomb destroys a structure that you're in, you can be crushed to death by the falling structure/debris; if you're close enough to the bomb to be hit by the heat/fire, you can get terrible burns that kill you that way.

Basically, cool guys don't look at explosions; they get internally liquefied, pincushioned by shrapnel, and burned to a crisp.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Since on land is explained pretty well already, underwater explosion: It hardly has the risk of shrapnel due to the medium in which one is submerged.

 However, blast range is much higher and the shockwave created is more deadly, as the rapid current will carry you off and everything around you becomes a deadly obstacle.

Being on the seafloor doesn't help if you're sufficiently close, even a sandy and soft seabed creates enough abrasions to seriously injure you, even through your gear.

You don't want to be caught under some idiots fishing with explosives. But if you do, and have time to act, grab onto whatever rock or debris that is firmly affixed and try to minimize surface area.

You'll naturally go into a fetal position with fear, so that will help.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Compression. As the shock wave is expanding from the explosion, it is trying to go everywhere it can. And a human body offers little resistance. It is like being hit with an 800 pound hammer on every part of your body at the same time.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: I remember asking my mentor a question like this once. I'll never forget what he said to me.

"It can only kill directly in one one way... and indirectly in 2 ways." he said to me.

"You should pray it kills you directly. if it does, this is how it would get you.

A pressure wave forms in front of the explosion and the pressure literally liquefies parts of you inside. It's hard to stay alive with soup for lungs. Sure the pressure can snap bones and stuff but it's the pressure that kills. You should hope that the explosion DOES do this because if it's a [low explosive] (_URL_0_)... My god... pray it's a Hex and not Loex.

If it IS a low explosive here is what you will get in less than the space of a heat beat:

Shards of shrapnel will tear through you. RIPPING their way through the vital pathways inside you. TEARING them apart! Whether they're the pathways for nerve impulses, blood flow or air flow. It doesn't matter. That shrapnel rips through you and surprisingly, it's going to be hot. It doesn't hurt you though. The heat of the eviscerated flesh is nothing compared to what's next. 

"Does it hurt?" you ask? No. It doesn't have time to hurt.

In the instant before the you'll greet the reaper you'll see a fireball of outstanding beauty run at you. Maybe this will kill you... but it probably won't

You will be lying there with your vital fluids creeping their way to the gutter as and your bowels strewn before you as your flesh starts to slough from your bones, slowly cooked from the heat of the fire. All the time you'll be thinking, praying, hoping this is just a dream.

And, finally... as all goes dark...

the cold embrace of death."
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: There are 5 ways and explosion can actually kill you. I have this from my PHTLS military edition. 
(im taking this from the top of my head)

1: The blast. As previously mentioned, this will make your airfilled organs burst.  
2: The Heat. Getting burns on 90% of your body, will eventually kill you. Either to infection, dehydration, or similar.   
3: Projectiles. Rocks flying at insane speeds pose a serious health hazard.   
4: You become the projectile. Pretty straight forward, if you have the morbid idea to watch real combat footage, youll notice that some people get flung 50+ meters into the air before they come crashing down.   
5: Gas/disease/radioactivity/chemicals - If the explosion itself didnt kill you. (Fun fact - According to PHTLS military edition, there is a 3% chance to get infected with HIV, if a suicide bomber detonates, and you get hit by bonefragments).
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: My friend, during his college years, his boiler exploded and luckily survived it. This is how he explained the pain of the explosion.

 >  Imagine the biggest shit you have to take. The kind of shit that hurts your rectal area and causes rectal bleeding. Now imagine that your body is covered with anuses and you have to take the biggest shit(s) of mankind. Double the pain. That's what I felt when the water boiler exploded.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Heat, debris, or shockwave from an explosion will kill you. The closer you are to it, the deadlier it gets.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: When a piece of stone or metal flies through your brain at 500 mph, it can have negative effects on your health.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: /u/Opee23 hit on the main parts.  There are several things that can kill you:

1. Overpressure from the blast damaging your internal organs

2. Heat from the explosion causing thermal burns to skin or worse, airways and other mucuosal tissues

3. Injury from shrapnel or debris caused by the explosion (Think of Boston Bombing... the pressure cookers were loaded with nails and other metal to create a fragmentation bomb that shredded people)

4. Being turned in to flying debris yourself and hurled in to another object

This is similar to car accident where there are multiple forces at work: Sudden deceleration of the vehicle, person impacting steering wheel/seat belt/air bag, internal organs impacting against the body, objects in vehicle hitting the person.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: This really puts my mind in perspective on how people can just explode from a bomb or explosive (i.e. suicide bombers). You'd think there would be some magical component in the explosive that eviscerates everything into a pink mist when really it's just basic physics.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: In a word, Pressure. 

Pressure is a force. The molecules that your body is made of have an attraction to each other (a small force) and they hold together under the conditions present in our environment -- which is to say the forces in nature usually do not amount to enough to rip the bonds apart. 

Too much pressure, as one would experience being subjec to explosion, causes these bonds to break (simple example: Bonds of your body 1, force of explosion 1,000). Thus, too much pressure (ie. force) causes your molecules to quickly separate. 

TL;DR - A whole person becomes smaller pieces of a person. Said pieces can no longer function as a whole, resulting in death.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: To expand on what has been given:

Heat can cause your skin to suffer sever burns; if you are close enough to the right kind of explosion it can cook you alive as it suffocates you, since fires eat up all the oxygen in the area.

Debris: whether this is tiny bits of shrapnel flying out from a grenade or the kitchen sink falling from 500 feet onto you after a blast of C4, things moving really fast and hitting you are a bad time.

The shockwave was explained by /u/limbodog better than I could hope to.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Trauma.

This reminds me of the first time I watched the Lion King. The question on my mind was "How does falling off a cliff actually kill you?" But it's the same answer, whether it's bullets or crocodile bites or getting hit by a meteor. The parts that compose your body are simply broken.

Think of it this way: Your body is just a complex Lego build, albeit slightly sturdier. Anything that can in principle turn a Lego tower to pieces can also turn your body to pieces, at least if you up the strength.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: There is a characteristic of an explosion named 'brisance'. It's described as the shattering effect at the point of detonation. The higher the brisance the more likely it will tear your limbs from your body. High explosives obviously have a lot of brisance. 

I trained in basic demolitions in the military. 

Edit: wiki; _URL_1_
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Have you ever see a Mythbusters high-speed shot of an explosion? Ever notice that moving front of ever-expanding waves? That's the explosion's shockwave and when it reaches your body, if it's energetic enough, it starts turning you into smaller pieces. The energy alone just starts ripping you apart. Basically, your cells don't have time to move together as a group, so they start ripping away from each other. It's called "static inertia". No shrapnel needed, but add shrapnel and debris to the explosion and now you have super high speed foreign objects to worry about. Nasty nasty.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Explosions and pressure waves aren't actually too rough on organs or solid body parts, where they do their damage is air pockets and cavities such as lungs or intestines. This is because energy will travel through a medium, but things go funny when it needs to transfer mediums (water to air, water to rock, etc.) for reference look at the myth busters episode about diving near an underwater explosion, I recall this being explained there. They found laying on the surface is significantly safer than being submerged because the pressure waves are less direct.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: An explosion is when something rapidly converts to gas. Like when the kettle boils and water turns to steam, but so fast that it seems like it's happening instantly. When things convert to gas, they expand, and they push out on the things around them, like air going into a balloon. Except instead of a balloon - it's pushing the air (and dust and dirt and anything else around the explosion) out. Because there's so much gas pushing out so fast, it's like everything around the explosion is simultaneously hit with a hammer made of air.

The volume or mass of the explosion, or how much gas there is produced by the chemical reaction determines some of what happens, like how far away from the blast things will be damaged, and the velocity of the reaction determines if things will just be ripped apart, or picked up and thrown. High speed explosives usually just rip things apart. Low speed explosives tend to throw big heavy things.

If the big hammer of gas doesn't hurt you, the things thrown by the explosion (shrapnel) might. Rocks, pieces of metal and glass and other small sharp or hard things can be thrown by the explosion like bullets, and those things can tear holes in people, except they usually leave jagged messy holes and often go lots faster than bullets.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: There are a few different reasons and they all depend on the circumstances.


The most common is shrapnel. Think of a sphere surrounded by dozens of tiny pistols shooting a bullet in every direction. In this case it's pretty simple. Pieces of junk rip your flesh apart like a shotgun blast.


In the absence of shrapnel, an explosion can cause whiplash-like sudden jerking of the body. This causes numerous problems like tearing of ligaments or breaking of bones, but the worst of these is a concussion. Your brain moves around in your skull like a baby's rattle. If that doesn't instantly kill you, you'd at least have brain damage. 


The next most common is probably heat. As you might know, heat is just molecules moving really fast, or friction. Rubbing your palms together makes them heat up. So too will air heat up when it is forced to move from an explosion, but of course the effect is exponentially magnified.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: More often than not shrapnel gets ya.  Thousands of pieces of razor sharp scolding hot metal flying in all directions away from the explosion.  If your close enough the blast itself would be enough to burst or rip apart most of your body.  But that a small area in comparison to the area the shrapnel can fly
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Usually in more than enough ways than necessary.  Blast (abrupt pressure change), heat, kinetic energy applied to you and to other objects, acceleration and deceleration and other forces inflicting multiple trauma to your little meatsack of existence.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: An explosion causes harm in three distinct ways:  

The concussion, or shock wave

Objects being ejected or thrown at you.

You being thrown into objects.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: I'm sitting here in my house, surrounded by technology and so many examples of human ingenuity, reading the thoughts and ideas of some of the most creative minds imaginable... The idea that here, in 2014, people just like me are fighting wars and suffering unimaginably on the other side of the world, is appalling. 

Go ahead and call me naive, but sometimes I think the world could use a few more naive people who want to change things. Reading through this thread is disturbing.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: You don't need to get ripped to pieces to get killed. The shockwave of a high explosive has a pressure of several gigapascals. That is more than ten thousand times atmospheric pressure. So this is basically a wall, several thousand degrees hot that is coming at you faster than the speed of ~~light~~ sound. Getting hit by this shockwave is the equivalent of crashing a fighter jet into mountain.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: If you have an afternoon to kill this is a fascinating record (Some NSFW/L illustrations): _URL_4_

[This chapter](_URL_3_) about wounds suffered by American bomber crews in WW2 really shows the horror young men were exposed to in the skies over Nazi Germany.

edit: [This (NSFW/L)](_URL_4_) was the most shocking for me, an 88mm flak shell which failed to explode but went through a poor crewman's head.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: The parts of an explosion that kill you are either A)shrapnel, or B)the shock wave.  Shrapnel's obvious, you have a whole bunch of sharp fragments going into your body kinda like bullets.  The shock wave, however, can cause internal bleeding without any external signs by jostling your organs.  Also, depending on the kind of explosion, you can always get burnt.

It really depends on what kind of explosion it is, how close you were, etc.(for example, if a potato cannon blows up while you're firing it, that's all shrapnel because the pressure is minimal).
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: you know how when you evaporate water, it creates pressure so enormous that it can move the generators of power-plants.... well if you ignite these solid explosives, they also have chemicals that  are released in the same fashion, except at temperatures of thousands of degrees. It carries with them millions of tiny, heated particles, melting through your flesh until they're cooled down, travelling at hundreds of miles per hour....  
... was that too graphic for a five year old?
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: 1. Fire.
2. Lack of oxygen from the fire.
3. Shockwave from the explosion.
4. Shrapnel/frags.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: As my college chemistry professor put it, "by moving stuff around really fast."
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Here is a slideshow of a bomb exploded in Sri Lanka. 

_URL_5_
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Going off of this, in war scenarios when a soldier may lose a limb in an IED explosion or something how can they be at the centre of an explosion yet only lose a leg, arm etc? Or is it just the same?
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: When something goes boom, a lot of force goes everywhere. A lot of that force passes through whatever unfortunate sap is nearby. That force kills the unfortunate sap by smushing his innards. Also, shrapnel, heat, fire, the like.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Similarly, ELI5: How does jumping off a bridge kill you? Do you end up so deep that you run out of breath before you surface? Or is the impact itself so hard that you lose consciousness and drown?
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Pressure wave crushes you and expands lungs making them explode and killing you from the inside out. Or the thermal energy ignites your body and burns you to death.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Imagine what a fly looks like after you swat it with a newspaper. Now imagine you're caught in an explosion. You're the fly, and the explosion is the newspaper.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: Short answer: the same way a fall of a high building would I would say.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: So,  it's basically the pressure of the Shockwave that kills you before anything else, correct?
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: It rearranges your flesh in a way that makes it not function any more.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: The rapid pressure change from the explosion ruptures your organs
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: This thread has been way more interesting than I anticipated.
question: How does an explosion actually kill you? answer: It rips your fucking body apart, that's how.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: * Most 70 year olds don't work...lenders don't give big loans to people who don't have jobs.
* You sure you only have a few years left?  It would kind of suck to blow all of your money then be broke from another 10-20 years.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I feel like everyone in this thread is missing a big point- most older people want to leave money to their families, especially their kids. If you die with a huge debt, they get nothing, and all of your property (including your family home) will get sold to pay your debt.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: The correct answer is nothing, but its generally risky and the reward is limited.  Its basically the same reason that 70 years old don't do heroin.  They just keep doing what they've been doing.  They mostly try to enjoy time with their loved ones, have sex with other elderly people, stay healthy, and hope to live for another 20 years.

First, it is generally possible to do what you're asking because many 70 year-olds have terrific credit with no assets or significant income.  Credit has very little to do with assets, liabilities and income.  It has a lot to do with a documented history of willingness and ability to pay back debts as agreed, on time.  Although a personal financial statement is a valuable tool for a bank to assess risk when making a 6+ figure construction or real estate loan, it is not an effective predictor of whether an individual will reliably pay back a 4-5 figure unsecured debt. A documented history of paying back such debts -- e.g. a credit score -- is a valuable predictor.  This leads to counter-intuitive situations, such as where a 90+ year old man has a credit score that qualifies him or her for a great mortgage rate, but the bank refuses to offer similar terms to his (also elderly) children who are still employed, even with the father as a guarantor.

An elderly person with a good credit score, but limited financial acumen is exactly the person who is taken in in their old age by Spanish lottery scams.  This is why those scams exist:  because what you're asking about actually happens.  Older people with good credit, no assets, and no income get sucked in.

That said, even though nothing would be stopping you, your hypothetical is rarely so uncomplicated.  Most people do not know how exactly how long they have left.  Maybe you have never seen a completely destitute old person in your life.  Their lives are hard.  If you are not sure that you will die around the time the money runs out, you may be better off not going bonkers.  

Also, the 50-100k you can borrow doesn't go as far as you would think.  How do you envision spending the money?  Giving it to your loved ones is fraud and they can get into legal trouble or have to give it back.  Cocaine and strippers are okay, but then what?  Is it worth your dignity or your pride to be a fool when you're that close to bowing out gracefully?

Finally, most 70 year olds have figured out that blowing cash isn't all its cracked up to be.  Most 40 year olds know this too.  Mostly you end up wishing you still had the security.  Mostly you think, I could have just used my personality and a couple bucks to wander the earth for awhile, doing some good deeds and having some laughs.  

But you're 5 and you'll have to learn all that the hard way.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I've worked in credit cards in fraud and collections.  Nothing stops you.  A lot of old people have done it.  

Usually, they run up their cards because of inadequate retirement savings and they charge a little each month to cover food, rent, or medicine.  With those people we have little recourse as their assets are basically nil.

Once in a while someone does exactly what you are talking about usually buying a ton of stuff right before they die.  But usually people are so ill can't actually get out to the store to buy the stuff themselves.  So they give the card to relatives or give the relative their own card on their account as an authorized user or co-signer.

If someone racks up a ton of debt and has assets the Fraud dept will get involved.  

One of two things happens.  

1) We put a claim against their estate.  While credit cards are unsecured credit we can still put liens against the estate.  If their only asset was the home they owned that will have a lien on it.  So if you want to pass anything on to your kids the card companies will make sure they get their share.  

Unsecured debt is last in line for any payouts on assets with secured debt like mortgages and car loans having first cut on the assets they are secured with.  Retired people have usually paid off their homes so we would could get first dibs if we file our lien before other debtors.

2) Once the person dies their account is closed as of time of death.  Fraud has caught a surprising number of people using credit cards after death.  Often they are authorized users who have a card but are not account holders so the charge is fraudulent.  The threat of jail time if they don't pay often gets people to take on a large amount of debt they thought would be clear.  

If you are a co-signer then you are now on the hook for the whole amount.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: As a banker I've seen it happen. Also seem people max out lines of credit, credit cards , sell their assets and leave the country. It's a calculated risk that the rest of us pay for.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Using actuarial tables you've got 14 years if you're male and 17 if you're female. Plus for every year you survive you get another 1/2 year of life.

Might want to reconsider that if you hit 90.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I remember reading that when you die, the debt you have does not fall on anyone. Debt collectors can try and collect from your family and friends but they are not legally obligated to pay it. I think there are special circumstances but I don't think it really falls on anyone. Anyone know about this sort of law, here?
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: This is basically what my father did when he knew he was dying of cancer. All assets were transferred to my mother or a legal trust he had setup. His life insurance paid out to the trust only, and not his estate. He then opened and maxed out as many lines of debt as possible, which he used to pay off the mortgage. When he died, the house and cars were paid off, but yours estate had no assets to recover the debt. I believe of mother had a tax bill for the payments made to *her* assets, which was paid to keep the IRS happy. As far as I know, it was all perfectly legal.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: They'll loan you plenty of money if you have an asset, especially one you might have some equity in. It's called a reverse mortgage. And feel free to outlive your life expectancy because this thing will pay out until you and your spouse are dead...

_URL_0_
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Often the come after the families of people that do that.

Anyone that had a terminal illness could rack up hundreds of thousands in credit card debt.

wait... who am I kidding... this is America... if you've got a terminal illness you're already in hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt for medical bills and nobody is going to give you a loan anyway.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Gay's revenge: a gay man I know in Texas when gay marriage wasn't recognized, had terminal liver disease. He divested all his assets and lived on credit cards for his last year. He had a $25,000 balance on an Exxon card. Then when he died without assets the debt was left unpaid. hahahaha Texas.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Back in the early 90's when AIDS was in full swing this was a valid financial planning approach. When an otherwise healthy young man developed full blown AIDS he would acquire as much credit as possible and spend it on items that we easy to covert to cash. When he died his heirs (usually friends) would sell the items to pay for his funeral. The credit card companies would be left holding the bag.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: A credit check. 

People only lend money because they expect to get more than they lent back. For that to happen, the borrower has to demonstrate present or probable future income to pay off their debt. If you're 35 and working full-time, your current job is proof of your ability to pay off a home loan. If you're 19 and going to college, your intent to graduate is (theoretically) proof of future income that can be used to pay off a student loan.

If you're very old, your ability to repay debts is probably lower than others'. Now, age is prohibited from consideration in credit worthiness (so long as you're a legal adult), but other things related to your age aren't. For instance, as a 70 year-old, you're probably not working full-time in a good-paying job. You're probably retired, or semi-retired with light pay. If you have an income at all, it's probably fixed and below a level reasonably calculated to pay off a significant loan.

You can still get some credit - a few cards, a car loan, etc. But you probably can't qualify for outrageous loans.

Then, when you die, your creditors (the people who lent you money) get dibs on any assets you left behind. They are prioritized over people who might otherwise inherit from you. Your inheritors don't pay your debts, but their inheritance is diminished by whatever is necessary to pay the creditors back. 

This is all tweaked by various locals laws of course, but that's basically it: If you're really old, you probably aren't making enough money to convince someone to lend you more money.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: real reason - you could do it but all the stuff you want to buy doesn't exist anymore and all the new stuff doesn't make any sense to you
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Thats why the government doesnt let you know the exact date of your death. Oh, and for the auto moderator: yes, we can answer a question in a single sentence.yes, we can answer a question in a single sentence.yes, we can answer a question in a single sentence.yes, we can answer a question in a single sentence.yes, we can answer a question in a single sentence.yes, we can answer a question in a single sentence.yes, we can answer a question in a single sentence.yes, we can answer a question in a single sentence.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: i work as a mortgage broker. the term limits are 35 years or till the age of 70 years old. 

if you are 30 years old, you can borrow for a 35 year term

if you are 65 you can borrow for a maximum of just 5 years

if you are 70 then we wouldnt give you a damn penny. 

you can, however, do a joint loan and include someone younger than yourself as a co-borrower and the term limit would refer to the younger person's age
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Do you see that, internet? That moment when op realized that there wasn't anything really stopping them from doing this? That's why it's called credit. It's a risk, because at the end of the day, they can't actually *make* you pay them. Oh they can get court orders to garnish your wages or try to repossess things and a host of other nasty stuff things to make your life miserable, but ultimately they can't actually *make* you pay them.

And they doubly can't make dead people pay them. Though I recommend if you plan to leave any assets behind you turn it into gold and bury it so those you want to find it can get to it years later when the heat dies down.

Edit: I know the above can sound kind of stupid but this fine point is one of the common reasons why groups like the Better Business Bureau recommend you use credit instead of debit cards. With credit, in the case of fraud or dispute, you always have the "nuclear" option of telling someone to screw off. They might eventually force you to pay via court or other means but *no one wants to go through all that*, and the fact that you *could* go that route affects their actions. They are going to want to play ball with you, especially if it costs less than not playing ball. Where as with Debit, you're on the other side of that fence. You've already given them the keys to your bank account. In a worst case of fraud or dispute, they have your money, they don't have to give it back to you, and if they decide not to there's nothing you can do about it until you get a court to order it back.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: ITT: People getting caught on the specifics of the question instead of answering what OP is asking.

Forget about the number 70, forget about current assets or wealth or credit scores for the imaginary old person.

The question is: If someone is at the end of their life, and they rack up a lot of debt (forget about credit and assets, this is a hypothetical), what happens to that debt when they die?
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: If you are 70 and don't have significant assets (that a lender could go after if you tried to duck your payments by dying), you would have bigger problems than credit card companies.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: So do you want us to explain like your 5 or explain like your 70?
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I'm a banker and I have a customer that is determined to do this. He's 92 years old now, retired military, and up until about a year ago had a few hundred thousand in retirement funds with us. He gets VA benefits and SS every month, but since he doesn't have any family, all he does is give his money away to random people. In the course of the last year he's blown through all the money he saved, and has actually taken out a few loans to give people money. I've actually tried to talk to him a few times about this, and I'm almost certain he's a victim of elderly abuse, but the guy just does not care. He gets irate whenever I try to talk him out of giving another one of the leeches that hang around him another $5000, stating "I'm gonna die soon, what the f*ck do you care what I do with my money!" Since he has income, a great relationship with the bank, and great credit, he's automatically approved every time he wants a loan. It's really sad, but like he said, he has no one to give it to, and you can't take it with you when your gone.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Nothing can stop you, LEGALLY.  You incur debt against your eventual estate which is settled posthumously.    The lender is responsible for determining credit worthiness and within the confines of the law, extending or withdrawing credit.     It's not just with credit cards, which have written agreements with lots of little details.  It's relevant to other debts, too.    Say your dad borrows $100,000 from you and verbally promises to pay it back and then dies.   You have a claim against his estate.  If he has sufficient assets, the probate court and the estate executor will discharge it in full or in part and you can sue to prevent asset distribution that doesn't meet your own standards of fairness.  

You are perfectly free to run up as much debt as you want as a 35 year old and then die.  What happens after you die is exactly what happens to a 50, 70, 90 year old.    Surely you don't think age is a GUARANTEE against death, do you?   For every heart attack an old person can suffer, a young one can drink themselves to death or fall of the ski lift or crash their motorcycle.

When death arrives, society will settle your debts.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: After his 2nd heart attack, my dad started living like every day was his last, and spent the following 5 years racking up about $75k in debt on various credit cards plus a mortgage. When he died after heart attack #3, I was left to help my mom go through all the paperwork, which mostly involved getting tons of copies of the death certificate to mail to debtors to close the accounts. The only one that caused any problem at all was the loan against the house, which *could* have been dealt with as well, but my mom ended up abandoning the house since there were "too many memories" to stay there.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Historically, it was because people weren't total assholes and they also had kids they wanted to leave something to.

Nowadays with the selfish Baby Boom generation and more people not having kids, I wouldn't be surprised if we started seeing this sort of thing more often.  Of course, there tends to be only so much money you can borrow if you're not working or don't have a lot of assets, and so realistically you might be only able to rack up tens of thousands in debt you wouldn't pay.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Lots of good replies.  I'll add another reason it might not be a great idea: you're screwing other people over and ultimately all of society is a little worse, so somehow after a full lifetime you didn't figure out how to go out better than a selfish jackass.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Nothing. Go for it.  There was a book called Broke a few years ago. It's hypothesis was that your last check should bounce. Of course if you outlive your money, you will be eating dog food.  Buy the chunky Alpo. Quite tasty.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: As a follow on to this question; what if you were planning on killing yourself, you know offing yourself in a couple of days, what is stop someone like that from taking out a loan and spending it all then committing suicide?
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Could we theoretically target a bank and have a group of seemingly random individuals who use this bank dedicate their lives by racking up enormous amount of debt and then dying? With enough individuals could we fuck over a bank?
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Inheritance is the main reason not to do this. Sure you can spend the money on yourself, but being able to pass funds onto your loved ones is just as good as spending it to some extent.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: If your credit card debt is less that 10k per bank they won't go after the estate. I just dealt with this. Having minimal assets helps too.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I hope that after I die, people will say of me: That guy sure owed me a lot of money.

-- Deep Thoughts by Jack Handey
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: People are less willing to give you credit if you are less likely to pay it back. That includes old people.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Ultimately, the system has a bunch of checks and balances, but in regards to most of the comments (in the US) -

* They can't legally come after your family / next of kin, unless they are co-borrowers - that doesn't mean that scum debt collectors won't try though.

* If you've protected your assets appropriately (trust / living trust), then you've covered the inheritance aspect.

However, there are a ton of systems in place to attempt to prevent this, no matter what your age -

* You generally need your accounts open for a while to use it wildly. They might give you that initial $15k limit on a CC, but go and try to max it out 3 months after opening it. They can decline charges based on suspicious patterns. Having a particular credit limit doesn't mean that they will approve all charges.

* You can't open a bunch of accounts at once due to the inquiries showing up. So, the accounts would have to be open for a while.

* If you have a pretty good credit score and have open accounts with $10k + credit limits, then you're probably a pretty responsible person and know how to live within your limits - so you wouldn't necessarily be interested in this approach.

* Income is a factor for new accounts (doesn't have to be documented, necessarily), but if you have established credit if they're the same accounts you've had for a while you're good to spend whatever

* You will have to make payments until you die, or spend all you can (and they will allow you to) within a month or two before they start shutting down your accounts. Making payments would be lame, since in about 3yrs you've already paid more than whatever you spent just based on minimum payments (minimum principle of 1.5% + interest monthly). So, if you live past 73 or so, you're fucked.

* A single 30 day late, and most of your accounts will CLD (credit line decrease) and / or close. Add this to the point above about spending suspiciously and being declined - you won't get away with $100k in charges in 30 days unless you have the history / assets / income to back it up. They will decline the charges and call you.

* Ultimately, you might get away with $20k worth of charges if you do it all right and had great credit to start with with at least $50k in open credit to start with.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: A couple of things:

You might not be able to get a loan/credit thats very high becuase retirees dont have a high income and are at risk for not paying off the debt

If you do manage to get a loan/credit, and you blow through it in a couple of years. You cant get anymore money bc you have little income and are already in debt. Whats to say that you will die around 73-75?? My great aunt is currently still living independently well into her late 80's. Repossession is a terrifying thing for seniors because you may not have much else or any family to go to. 

And finally, unless you or your family have some sort of insurance, debt is not simply wiped out if you die. There is a certain amount of debt forgivness, but it still exists and you still owe money to the bank, except now your imediate family owes the bank this money.(The laws are different depending on the country/state, but its likely you would need a cosigner to get the loan, which would make the legally obligated to the debt) On top of having to pay for funeral expenses, the have to pay off your debt, as well you will not have anything left to give as a inheritance to you family. Which would just make your family resent you after you died.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Basically they can't BUT if there is enough evidence that you spent a lot of money using credit but intended to never pay them back then that is fraud and, technically, could be charged with a criminal offense.

However, that would be very difficult to prove and the individual can just claim they didn't understand.  So would take witnesses that the individual actually TOLD he was going to buy as much as he could without paying back.

Lastly, assuming this individual doesn't already HAVE the credit cards and access to debt my guess is after he applied to two or three, and they each gave him, say, $5000 each as an available balance and started using, it wouldn't take long before further cards would be "denied". 

And let's not forget that when this individual dies his ESTATE owes the money!! So unless this person really had "absolutely nothing" (no cars, no houses, no savings, no collectible guns/art/etc., and so on) then the estate could be sued and the items sold to PAY for the debt owed.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I had a Grandma who was a bum. She lived in a subsidized apartment and collected welfare. Her rent was only $25 a month. She had every credit card and store card you could think of and ran them all up. When she passed there was little any of the creditors could do. She had no home or savings of any kind. However, if she did own a home or had savings that would have been put into the estate when she passed and I'm sure that her creditors could have made a claim against her estate. I'm thinking in your situation if you owned your home and it was worth say $250 000 and you owed $100 000. When you die your house would be sold, your creditors paid and the rest would go to whoever you will it too. But if you have nothing then I don't think there is much they can do other then write it off...
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Sadly the top answer isn't really the REAL answer. If you have good enough credit to be able to blow 100k on credit cards before you die, you have assets. If you die the creditors will come after your estate, so your kids won't be liable for your debt, but they may get nothing from your trust / will and could even have to foot the bill for your funeral. 

TL DR you can rack up debt if you don't care about your family facing consequences. If you have no family go ahead and live it up. 

Edit: It should be noted that outside of your estate the creditors cannot come after your family for your debts that your estate doesn't cover. (ELI5: If you die with $100k in debt, but own $75k in assets (your estates value), the creditors will get all $75k. Your family will have to cover your funeral expenses.)
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: My plan for when I'm 70. Is to begin spending literally all my of money, and liquidate all of my assets to 0. 

I'll ensure no debts are passed on to my descendants. Next, I'll write a personal letter to everyone in my life I care about, saying goodbye. 

Finally, I'll euthanize myself and leave this world peacefully and happy. 

Fuck that, rotting away in some depressing ICU unit, or even worse, a lifeless nursing home. And costing society hundreds of thousands of dollars to keep my old and spent body breathing. 

I'm happy to leave this world. Why people insist on fighting and scraping and clawing their ways to the grave is a mystery to me.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I know the completely opposite situation.

A man who owned unused houses priced by several thousands of euros but refused to sell them. Although he was retired, he continued working everyday. In morning he went to an ice cream shop and helped doing the mixes and the rest of his days was spent taking care of his little (illegal) urban farm where he grow rabbits, birds, chickens... to sell.

Finally he got mentally ill and ended in a care home, and not having any family, all his money went  50-50 between the care home and a orphanage.

He spend all his life working and ended with alzheimer in a care home without having enjoyed his money.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: If you have no plans to pass anything on to your family?  Nothing stopping you.  My grandmother has taken this to heart--- reverse mortgaged her house, and has charged the hell out of any and all credit cards she owns. Her life = the casino. 

 It's sad, really.  She used to be so well-traveled, and now her end-all, be-all is sitting in front of one of those damned slot machines. :(  And she's in pretty good health for a woman close to 80.... really sad what she COULD have done with all that debt she's racked up.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Estate seizure is the short answer. When you die, the government doesn't call it quits on your debt. There is a sect of law practice aimed entirely at saving one's nest egg for their inheritors after they pass. They will collect on every penny they can. And they'll seize your life insurance less burial expenses, your home, property like jewelry, etc, to ensure they get theirs before your family gets a dime.

But if you've no family or heirs, live it up if you can get the credit. Just hope you don't need long-term care.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Former process server here.  I have served several old folks lawsuits for credit card debt.  They don't care the age, they will get their money one way or another.  If you have assets you'll have liens put against them so any inheritance that is left for their children will be less cause the banks will get their cut before the family does.  If you don't have assets, there isn't much the creditors can do to be honest.  It also depends on the state you live in on what they can garnish/take etc.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Well my uncle did something like that but with no debt.  He was always concerned about leaving his children all his money.  However, his children turned out to be less than stellar and never came to visit or see him in the hospital.  So one day he had enough, took all his money, bought a luxury car, went on trips, spent most of it.  Left my mother some and had his burial finances, but he lived like a king the last 5 years or so.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I just finished up a house sale with folks in their 70's.  This was their very first house purchase and always had been a dream for both of them to own their home.

During the entire process, they were terrified that something would go wrong or denied the loan because of their age.  I repeatedly assured them, that in no way, would they be denied because of age.
Of course it closed and they were the happiest people on earth that day.  

[realtor]
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: If you wanna fuck the bank take out as many mortgages as you can on your house and when you feel like your about to die, give all your cash to random homeless people, then burn the house down. Since you destroyed all your assets and died in an " accidental house fire " your family just collects the insurance money. Probably some stupid shit I over looked but I think it's a solid last middle finger to the bank.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I work for a retirement system. I heard a story of a guy who took a lump sum of his retirement pay because he was diagnosed with cancer and told he only had a year or two left.

The guy lived it up and blew the whole stack. Then, his cancer went into remission.

The way they tell it here, he's got to be in his late 70's or early 80's with no money, no credit and only social security/medicare.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Credit cards won't stop you. But, what if they come after the next of kin for payment? 

However, I did know a guy who had cancer and he decided he wanted a brand new Harley. So, he bought one thinking he wouldn't live past making his first payment. Well, he did live past that and was pissed he had to pay for the bike. But, he didn't live too long after.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: The only thing stopping you is finding people willing to give you money. In Switzerland unsecured consumer loans from banks or credit institutes are not done for retired people by law.

Now if you find some poor private bastard to lend you some money you're all set. Your heirs on the other hand will inherit the debt. The can refuse to accept it though.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I think the main point of Ted talks is to make the general public more science literate. Hence why it's free to watch and generally interesting. Yes, I believe that it does have an argument for being a sermon type of thing but, for me, I think it's great what they are trying to do overall.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: When you die you will have creditors.  Before your family get any of your estate (assuming you have anything to leave them) your creditors get first pick.  If you don't have anything to leave them then chances are you are a deadbeat that won't get anywhere near enough credit in the numbers you're talking about anyway.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: None. My dad passed away with a fuckton of credit card debt and took a second mortgage on his house that had 100 acres attached to it, then he sold the acreage and let the bank foreclose on the house.

Yeah, mom is doin pretty good in her retirement.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: The amount you can borrow will be dictated by your existing assets which can be borrowed against and your earning potential.  No lender is going to let themselves be out of pocket.  You may be able to swing a $5,000 credit card... or 5.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Depends on the country you live in and their rules concerning inheritance of debt.

Here in the US, you cannot inherit debt. So at least here nothing is stopping you outside the personal desire to leave some inheritance or legacy for your family.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Everyone saying that age is a factored in what is being loaned to you is wrong. In the US discrimination for age is illegal. You can only write loans based on quantifiable factors, like income, assets, credit history, etc.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Good answers here.  Let's add to it that if you were doing it intentionally, it would be immoral and it would effectively be stealing, but if you have no problem with that I can't help you.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Nothing stopping you.  The estate can be levied to pay any debts after death so if you do this you should make sure all your assets have been distributed prior to taking on the debt.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: I read about that, guy gets diagnosed with terminal cancer so he borrows $40,000 and heads off around the world. Comes back 3 months later to be told it was a misdiagnosis.
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: If you have a house take out a 30 year refi-mortgage and then party like tomorrow never gets here. The devil pays your last bill. :)
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Honor, respect, dignity for your name? Being able to sleep at night? Be able to look at yourself in the mirror?
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Well The babyboomer Generation did turn the our country into the economic mess it is now....so why not
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Gift all your property to family, next year  go out with a blast debt. Die happy?
question: Say I'm 70 years old, only got a few years left, what's stopping me from spending a lot of money and racking up a load of debt?[removed] answer: Alternatively, what if you planned to commit suicide and decided to borrow lots of money?
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Because it will add to their misery. This is not like the forgetting that non-sufferers may experience as a result of an injury or hangover; it goes much deeper and has a shorter cycle. You can tell an Alzheimer's patient a "fact" one minute and it's gone in 30 seconds. The *truth* for advanced patients may bear absolutely no resemblance to fact, because a humane approach most often involves meeting their uncertainties with whatever words bring comfort, not pounding them with proof that they're wrong.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My grandmother is in a nursing home and has what I'd have to imagine is fairly advanced Alzheimer's / dementia. She thinks she's in her fifties, that her parents are alive, and that she owns extensive properties in Florida. Not only that, but she believes not that she is in an elderly home, but that she works at the facility as a manager of some sort. She talks about all the people that have come to visit her lately, many of them years deceased. She has told me, to my face, that she doesn't see my mother very often because of her young children, which she says she understands. I am obviously said child, and I'm 29, and my mom is there three times a week. My grandmother is 85 and hasn't walked in three years, much less been outside.

We've been advised to pick and choose what to tell her about reality as we know it. If she's frustrated, telling her her parents are 25 years dead and that she couldn't walk if she wanted to doesn't help anybody. Even when you do decide to correct her, there's the chance that she'll argue. And the arguments are pointless. *Of course I can go down to the bar for a drink, I've lived here since the Carter administration! I have the clearance to do it!* And so instead you say stuff like "Oh, really nan? That's great you got to go into the city and get your hair done - it looks great!"

It's sort of depressing, but you just roll with it because you want to cause them less grief than more. Quality of life is sort of hard to rationalize in a nursing home, but you do what you can to make them comfortable.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: If you had a fact sheet in front of you saying your kid has had another kid who is also a gangster and the year is 2070, you'd be really reluctant to believe it.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Alzheimer's is more than simply forgetting; that's just the side effect that non-suffers see most.  The sheet would be meaningless to them.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I work in a nursing home, and we're taught to essentially "come to them" with whatever they're talking about. 
And rather than force truths that could potentially aggravate, confuse, and/or upset the resident, I generally give vague answers that aren't technically lies, but sort of ride that line.. for example:
A resident asks me if I've seen their mother, who I'm sure has long since passed away.. Instead of trying to make them understand that they're dead, I always just say "Nope, but if I do, I'll be sure to send them your way" 

What's important isn't trying to reverse things or force them into a reality that's more comfortable to you, but to embrace their confusion and make it easier for them to exist day to day.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Because it's not that they forgotten the information, it's that they can't process memory correctly. They essentially have been displaced in time. So even when presented with facts about their life, they wouldn't see them that way. Because they have no frame of reference for those memories.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Ah, the "Memento" method. Unfortunately Alzheimer's goes a bit deeper than just memory loss - it's an actual cognitive impairment. Even if they're able to read the sign there's still a pretty good chance they're not going to understand it.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Imagine right now having a fact sheet in front of you telling you that it is like 2050 right now and you have Alzheimer's. You would be really confused, too. To them, it's just like this, because they perceive their own reality.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Since my wife has memory problems I will explain this. Our cats Smoke and paint died over a decade ago. When she is having memory problems she does not remember this. When having a bad memory day if she asks about these two longtime beloved pets I redirect her and put her focus on something else. In time she will forget about her question or non-emotionally remember these two pets have died. 

If I tell her immediately or if she has a card that tells her she feels all the emotion as if it had just happened. She would relive a very painful part of her past again. Having her cry for hours (which also makes her memory worse) only servers to make her grieve all over again and me feel like an asshole.

Imagine you wake up from your nights sleep and ask about your loving wife of 45 years only to hear that she has been dead for 10 years and you suck for not remembering.....The pain can be unbearable and it would be repeated needlessly over and over.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Trying to reason with a person who suffers from  Alzheimer's is like telling a baby to stop crying; frustrating and useless.

My Gramma thought she had lead weights in her legs preventing her from walking.  It took almost an hour to get her to walk to any room in the house because she refused to lift her legs up due to the mysterious weights.  No amount of reasoning would make her believe the weights weren't in her legs.

My Gramma finally found love in her delusional state of mind with a fellow senile old man in her care home.  My mother and his son had to sign "permission slips" to allow them to have a relationship.  It was hilarious.  She was single and alone for 50 years and was able to get a boyfriend at almost 90 years old!
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Alzheimer's type dementia, although the most visible symptoms are confusion and memory loss, they are just the surface of what's really going on.  There are "plaques and tangles" that form in and around the neurons of the brain. This manifests itself in memory loss to us, the bystanders, but really it's a progressive and irreversible degeneration of all cognitive or "thought" functions, in which memory is just one aspect. That would include, seeing the fact sheet as something significant, reading it, understanding what was read, and if an AD patient got that far (they were lucid at the time), the most significant hurdle would be accepting it and coping with it. But that is just a temporary fix until the next episode came along.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Please kill me if this ever happens to me.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: When you're doubting everything else, why would you believe a piece of paper?
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Alzheimer's disease isn't just a sitcom-like trouble with memories.   There is a hell of a lot more going wrong with their brain.  The placard you place in front of them will probably just confuse them more...you know what?  Yah I'm for it, get them tattoos memento style.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My grandmother has vascular demetia (behaves much like alzheimer's). She cannot speak in coherent sentences, cannot read, cannot even focus on something like a picture or a card. She hasn't recognised us, her family, in a few years. Sometimes she thinks she is a little girl. Sometimes she asks where her mother is. Sometimes she thinks she lives in a house on her own, and that she goes to work in the city every day. She doesn't know that her brother died a few weeks ago. She couldn't even go to the funeral because she requires so much attentive care. 

Most of the people in her area of the nursing home also cannot speak coherently. Many cannot speak at all. They have a large tv that plays old movies, but none of them can focus on the tv at all. They just don't process the sensory material. 

It is a very, very sad way to die, and for some people, it is a long decline. It has been 10 years now, for my grandmother.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: This wouldn't work. Someone with Alzheimer's might not remember the beginning of the page once they get to the end of it. Even if they did manage to read through it and understand they would most likely forget shortly after.

As well as this although someone with Alzheimer's can't remember their feelings remain. If I had Alzheimer's and were to read that many of my relatives were dead I would be upset, then forget, and then wonder why I'm upset which would just confuse me and frustrate me even more.

The best way I found to deal with Alzheimer's is to agree with the person suffering.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I was a caregiver to an elderly parent with Alzheimer's for over 10 years. I've tried that, and others have tried that. I regret even trying it. All it does is lead to arguments and confrontations. When what you ultimately should do is just try to keep them as happy and safe as possible.

Correct handling of an alzheimer's patient is more akin to improv, going with the flow and yes/anding everything to steer things in a healthier direction. In my personal experience, they should not be left alone for more than a moment, with obvious exceptions such as if they are in care facility. Basically, from my experience, guard their safety as you would a toddler.

If there's one bit of advice I'd give to people struggling with taking care of someone with this that worked for me it's this: regular flattery and kindness can make them a lot less grumpy over time. Remember, they are scared and feel alone, and building trust is the goal.

I'm aware that got off track from the initial question but I'm just trying to help anyone reading this who might be struggling.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Their hippocampus is decaying. A fact sheet can't fix that.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I work at a long term care facility that has a dementia unit. I tried this tactic with one of the ladies who repeatedly asks the same  things over and over.  Where am I? How did I get here? Where is my family? What day is it? Etc.... Over and over and over all day long. I made her a paper saying she is at such and such facility,  the date,  the fact that her son lives down the road and visits often etc. It worked for this particular lady,  she would look at it and read it out loud all day long and it seemed to calm her.  You have to remember  though that this won't work for some or most alz  patients becuase some of them,  depending on where they are in the disease process, have even lost the ability to read.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Alzheimer's is the slow destruction of neurons due to build up to toxic proteins Tau and Beta-amyloid.  These neurons die and are no longer replaced by new ones (through a process called neurogenesis).  Therefore, it's not as simple to say they are losing their memories, but in fact, their entire brain is slowing dying.  This affects other cognitive functions, such as judgement, reasoning, motor coordination, pattern recognition, as well as memory.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Sounds like somebody's been watching "50 First Dates"...
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: "Losing your memory" is a simplistic layman's explanation of what happens with dementia/alzheimers. As Alzheimers progresses, the brain loses mass and vital neuron connections. Their brains misinterpret things and lose the ability to decipher context from their surroundings. That is why sufferers in nursing homes often think they are in hotels, or on cruises, or in prisons. Their brains are trying to interpret their surroundings but can't do it anymore with any accuracy. Words on a page become unreadable or incoherent. They forget context and social norms. Even if they could read the message about their lives, they wouldn't necessarily think it applies to them. 

In early stages of Alzheimers people do these things sometimes to help cope with their symptoms, but gradually these messages become like lecture notes for a class the person doesn't remember taking. 

TLDR: "Losing your memory" is a simplistic explanation of what Alzheimer's does. Alzheimers is a slow decay of the brain.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Alzheimer's is just the worst fucking disease.  Such a horrible way to end your life.  I hope Alzheimer's patients have some form of internal peace.

My grandmother had it.  She was the smartest person I ever knew.  She was absolutely brilliant.  I saw it take her from us while I was in high school.  She forgot my brother and I, then she forgot my dad (her son), then forgot my mother (who visited her every day), then forgot how to speak, then presumably forgot how to breathe.

My only real regret in life is that I once told her she had Alzheimer's.  Nobody else was around, and I felt it would help some of her confusion.  She got mad at me and said I was wrong.  I know she forgot about that soon after, but I really wish I never did that.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My dad has Alzheimer's and I take care of him. He is only a stage 3-4. His short term memory is the first to go it seems. I had a serious what-the-fuck funny moment the other day. I'm studying GRE vocabulary words. Hell if he didn't know every single word and definition. I thought he had some crazy break through. Then asked him what day it was and he didn't know what year it was. And that's how it goes. He can't learn new tasks or new information at all. And fuck no I'm not going to remind him everyday about his disease.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: One of the passengers in my shuttle told everyone about his dad. Apparently this guy's dad has the Heimers and said, "Son, at least I can hide my own easter eggs."
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Because they would believe it as much as you would believe it if I handed you one right this second.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: The simple answer is that it is unlikely that they would need the same information all the time, and it's likely that they would not be able to read it. Dementia is like forgetting your keys; Alzheimers is like staring at your keys and forgetting what they are for. People with Alzheimers don't just forget stuff, their brain does not know how to do stuff that they didn't even think about before (like read simple words, sign your name, feed yourself or control bladders and bowels). Scientists can't even be sure how much people with advanced Alzheimers understand about their surroundings. My grandmother basically died of alzheimers (her body essentially "forgot" how to function) and her language ability degraded in a very gradual way that we didn't even notice at first, but before she was completely unable to speak had her reduced to a few short phrases that made sense in the context of the conversation, but she couldn't say anything else. She did understand speech- she knew what was happening to her but didn't need "reminding" of anything other than to do things like take her dentures out, chew her sandwich etc. When she could still speak, she was obviously aware of who people were in our family, but she called us all by the wrong names, not because she had forgotten- it was more like the connection in her brain was telling her "I know who this is, it's blah". She called my mum and my aunt her sisters' names, and me and my sister my mum and my aunt's names but she knew that we were not her sisters and her daughters, but her daughters and her grandchildren, so we just got used to what our "Granny" name was and she knew who she meant.
Terry Pratchett said in an interview a while ago that he was staring at his keyboard and couldn't work out where the A (or something) was (sorry I don't have a source), so that's the kind of thing Alzheimers causes. Your solution could possibly work with early dementia but it's just not how Alzheimers works.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My grandmother has Alzheimer's disease. Before she went to the nursing home, she had a little dog she loved. This little dog was also old and sick. Finally, I knew it was time to take the dog and put it to sleep.

That evening my grandmother asked where her dog was. I told her the dog was very sick and I had to take her to the vet to be put down. She said "oh no" and began to cry. 

After a while, we were watching TV and my grandmother asked where her dog was. I told her the dog was very sick and I had to take her to the vet to be put down. She said "oh no" and began to cry. 

The next morning at breakfast my grandmother asked where he dog was. I told her the dog was visiting my house and everything was fine. She finished breakfast and went on with her day.

There was nothing to be gained by telling her the truth. The only result of honesty would be repeated emotional pain for my grandmother.

Eventually, she stopped asking about her dog.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: You can't have a three sentence conversation with my grandmother. She can respond to a question or ask one and seem to be aware of the answer, but the next sentence might as well be about something entirely different for all the connection she'll make between it and the first. Like, 'Do you like peas?' "Yes!" 'Would you like some?' "Some what?"


This note would be less than useful. She might read it out loud repeatedly all day long, like she will the headline of a newspaper or the titles of books on the bookshelf, but it wouldn't mean anything to her. By the time she reads the second sentence she's entirely forgotten the first, and that's assuming she ever processed it to begin with. 


One of the big things with trying to talk to someone with dementia is to not further their confusion by talking about things they have no understanding of. If they're having an exceptionally good day and are able to carry on a short conversation, the first time they seem to get confused you just sort of shuffle to the next thing, gloss over it. It keeps them calmer and happier. The brief moments they are aware of how much they are missing/how muddled their world is are the saddest. Thankfully my grandmother doesn't have those anymore.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I had an epiphany when I read a story called "Flying Polar Bear Spray."
As a caregiver for 36 years, I recommend it. 
You get into their reality, things work better that way.
peace.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: This would make a great film. They could cast Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore as the lead roles
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: As soon as they look away they will forget it. Also, abuse.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Why not just tattoo your body with info about your life...
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Well for one if it were my grandmother she would lose the fact sheet and stick it with her bill statements from 2008. She has suffered for years from Alzheimer's and there's a certain face and look she gives me when she has these realizations that this is the life she lives. I live with her and take care of her and i have learned, telling her the reality of the situation only makes her cry. Like today she asked why she was so tired and i told her we had a doctors appointment. She clearly didn't remember we'd already gone and she gave me that same scared face, and i had to leave her alone while she just sat there, re-remembering for the 100000th time that her life really has changed. I posted a poem on her fridge that really has helped me in frustrating times i swore i wouldn't get through.

 _URL_0_

I read it every single day.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My mom used to work in a senior center and they had a woman who had early stage Alzheimer's. The only real problem they ran into was that she kept asking where her husband was. He had died several years prior, and her daughter (who brought her daily to the center) would remind her in the car that he was gone. It meant this poor woman got dropped off in misery because she was feeling the grief freshly. It was terrible. Finally, the daughter began to tell her mother that "dad was at the store" or that "he was working on the house." It allowed this woman pleasure and didn't end up hurting her.

Having a fact sheet like that that could remind a person of their situation could only add to their suffering. It's not like The Notebook. You don't suddenly get lucid everyday after hearing a nice story.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Sometimes it better that they forget. There was a man with alcohol-related dementia in a nursing home i used to work at. Both of his parents were dead, but he didn't remember that. And every day he asked all of us, over and over, where his parents were and when they were coming to get him. He was so upset and it was just awful. For a while, someone broke the news to him every day, resulting in fresh grief and agony for him. Finally we figured out to make something up about their being delayed for some reason. It pacified him temporarily and by the next day he'd forgotten everything again and the whole thing repeated.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Reading the comments, I can just pray that my mom never gets this. She was in a nursing home for a month about a year ago because of a bad staph infection in her foot that left her unable to walk until it healed, and she says that she'll kill herself before going back to one.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: It is more comforting to just go along with what they say in a conversation even if it doesn't make sense. They can get very agitated, sad, irritated if you try to correct them or explain the correctness of a topic.

source: Mom had dementia before she died.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I once treated a patient who's family would remind him that his wife had recently passed away and it destroyed him every time. 

It was their way of coping with it, not meant to be malicious in the slightest but it was still  difficult to observe.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: They are only confused because of what the world is telling them. Alzheimer patients are pretty confident in their delusions.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: What if they move? Like physically get up and walk somewhere?
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: On the surface it seems like a good idea, but on a deeper level it causes more pain.  Imagine having to relive being told you have a mental degenerative terminal illness every day, having to relive that moment constantly and never getting the chance to come to terms with it.  

To illustrate, my great grandfather was a brilliant man, a veteran of WWII and an inventor of heavy duty machinery.  My great grandmother passed away and soon after he began developing Alzheimer's.  He could no longer care for himself and we moved him to a home to ease his final days.  We would visit him often and he was more likely than not bedridden.  My mother would talk to him and he would call her 'Barbie', the pet name for his daughter.  At first we would try to correct him, but we quickly realized that it brought him a great amount of pain and confusion because he couldn't recall my mom's name.  In the end my mom let him call her Barbie, even though it was wrong it made him happy even for that brief moment.

The sad thing is a factbook might help I'm the early stages, but down the road it won't.  They'll forget to check the book, they'll forget the book even exists.  You can't fight Alzheimer's, as much as you might want too it's easier to just let it run its course and make the patients days easier as best you can.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: 1. That list will be insanely huge, unwieldy, and inconvenient
2. They patient will likely just forget to read it, or not notice it after it's gone from memory.
3. If they did read it, it's incredibly depressing. It's not like going into a room and forgetting what you went in there for. It's a constant cycle of your brain realizing that its trying to get information that is no longer there. This confuses them. It creates fear because they are aware they can't remember something, even if they don't know what. Emotions run high. Panic can set in. And then the cycle starts again. It's like this constantly. 
4. There is no point in the end. Telling them they're ill won't solve help the issue. They won't care in 30 seconds. It's like repeatedly telling them 'this is your life now, accept it.'
5. For less aggressive Alzheimers, it's not a case of constantly telling them they're sick (as stated above.) It could just be them doing silly shit. Like for example, I'd pour my uncle a cup of tea, and he'd just forget it was poured, and then spill it everywhere on his lap. It's at this stage where you don't necessarily know he's ill or not, you don't fully understand how far gone he is. Or how long he has left until he goes full blown. It's horrible.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Reading all these stories makes me glad that my own grandparents retained their mental faculties pretty well for the last years of their lives. 

The last one to go was 92, and until the last several months, she had been living at home with in-home carers. She had Parkinson's and had had spondylitis for years, but her mind was still in good shape (it may have started to slip in the last weeks or something, but there was certainly no dementia). She lived overseas; I saw her several months before she died and said a very awkward goodbye, knowing it would probably be my last. It was a short visit, as I was traveling, but she knew who I was and could share her views, identify people in old photos for us, and all that stuff.

All but one of my grandparents died in homes, actually, in their sleep (two from being old and one from prostate cancer), still *compos mentis*, as far as I know. The fourth had a massive stroke at the breakfast table. I'm certainly hoping my own parents at least maintain their mental faculties as their parents did (and that I can do the same!).
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My grandma has Alzheimer's and she spends most of her day reading her diary to see what has happened that day.

It could be something like:

"Today is Tuesday and my daughter Andrea visited me before dinner. My grandson commentssortedbynew is coming later on."

When I'm there she will read the sentence over and over and the conversation will be something like:

Did Andrea come today?

Yes, she came this morning and now I've come to say hello too.

Oh yes it say here, she came this morning.

That's right, she said you were looking well.

That's nice of her. Was that today?

Yes it was this morning.

Oh yes it says so here, and that you're coming later, are you coming later.

Well I'm here now, it was later but now that time has come.

Right so you'll be going then?

Yes in a bit. So what did you have for dinner?

I don't know, a sandwich probably. Is your mum coming?

She came earlier yes.

Right, lets see what I'm doing to day.

And so the circular conversation starts again. If you were to put down all the questions they needed, it's just not possible.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I have read a lot of comments saying "kill me if I get like this" or "I hope I die before I get like this". Obviously there is a tipping point where there is more pain and confusion than happy times. However that is in very advanced stages. My mothers short term memory has gone it frustrates her and our family. Yet she still gets so much enjoyment from life. Doing her garden, seeing her grandson, watching trash t.v. and chatting with her sisters and friends. Despite the fact I am her carer she still takes a lot of pride in thinking she is looking after me and my brother (I am 39 he's 41) .. There are medications now which really do slow the advancement of dementia and by the time most of the commentors in this thread get to that age there will be outright cures or prevention. My tip to all is. 

Be aware of what the early symptoms are and get into treatment a.s.a.p.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Alzheimer's is not soley memory loss, it is a cognitive deterioration that happens because of plaques and tangles within a persons brain. Therefore, a persons cognitive, behavioral, and emotion memory/functioning will often also be hindered or affected. 

So, although reminding them of certain things may seem like a logical fix (even though reminding someone, of their life, can also be emotionally devastating. EG: imagine you forget your mom has died... and someone keeps telling you. You have to live that over, and over again) unfortunately, it is not only their memory that becomes faulty, it is also their senses. 

Unfortunately, an Alzheimer's patient will slowly become less of who they are as a whole, and therefore, queing someone who no longer recognizes such ques, does not work.

To summarize, Alzheimer's is very complicated, and affects more then memory.

Me= social worker who worked with Alzheimer's patients and their caregivers for a year during a practicum, not an expert.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: It would only confuse the them more and make them sad. Some are stuck in a belief that they are living in the past and are still young. Bringing up issues that make them scared does not help. Some of our patients think they are in their apartment, some think they are at work and some think I am their son. From what I have  encountered many still can live a happy life. I try to go with the flow, hold hands and soothe their days. 

Source: Maintenance guy in a nursing home that gets talked to a whole lot!  

As a side note, if you have a loved one in a nursing home pay a visit. Get to know the other residents too. Many do not have relatives to visit them and it really brightens their day. Especially the memory loss ones. So much can be gained for you too.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I used to work as an HA in an Alzheimer's ward. It's like dealing with people whose brains keep resetting. Could be five minutes ago, could be 30 years ago, could be it's completely fragged where nothing makes sense. And then their bodies start shutting down. Memories go, ability to do actions go, social interactions go. Just a slow shut down of body and mind as they just sort of drift off.

Having a cheat sheet of "I am Joe Somebody. I have Alzheimers. I might remember this, I might not. Your wife was named Irene, she's been dead four months now. Your kid is Joe Jr and he's got a wife, Debbie, and two kids."

So you remember this note or you might not. You might not even register the note. It doesn't do anything for you short term or long.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: it just hurts them to much to know what's going on for the short time they remember what they've learned. in our family we tried to fight it when my grandmother showed signs we tried correcting her and my mother couldn't handle it well but sometimes they realize whats going on. I'll never forget my mother was bring her to a bath and getting frustrated and my grandmother looked my mom in the eyes and said "do you think i like being in this fog" and then she was gone again. reading these comments of stories their loved ones remembered a few months after that incident the only thing she remembered was a greeting she knew in high school,we'd say "beez you got bugs?" and she'd say in her horse little voice"sure i are everybody do" it was heart breaking
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Because it is just impossible,no matter what and everyday its gonna be worse for them.I work in a retirement home that specializes in seniors with Dementia and alzheimer and honestly the last thing you wanna do is tell them something like that.You'd probably confuse them more and theyd ask you what the hell are you talking about?When you have patience for people like this it can be one of the most amazing things you can be doing for someone!!!Im a server and the littlest things like remembering to put choco syrup on ice cream,or bringing cranberry juice or chopping their food up because they can't chew can really really make their day or feel special,iving them one on one attention is a really huge important thing.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Speech pathologist here. Basically, this can be done, and sometimes is. However, at later stages of the disease, your ability to understand language receptively will degenerate as well. It  can simply be too much into for you to take in. The words and sentences may be too much for someone to comprehend, leading to more confusion. Abstract thought becomes difficult.

There are systems that therapists use with the patient that are similar to what you just described, but are simpler. For example, one can point to a picture to communicate, things such as yes, no, going to the bathroom "I am hungry", etc. Eye gaze boards can be used as well.

It all depends on each individual patient as the disease progresses differently for everyone.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My wife put up a big sign in her mother's apt telling her that this was her home and that she was safe there.  All of her mother's worldly possessions were in that apt.  Her mother still called her at least once a day asking her why she was in some strange hotel room  &  saying that she was scared to be there.  She just wasn't really seeing what was in front of her much of the time (who knows how many times she actually read the sign and was comforted by it before forgetting it all again).  She's pretty much in a constant state of fear  &  agitation, so she can't be expected to be aware of her surroundings.  It's a horrible disease.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I spent years working in an Alzheimer's ward. It's not just gets they lose, but the ability to render basic things like toileting, personal care, (what do I do with this toothbrush?) How to eat, how to chew and swallow. Eventually they have problems swallowing and have to be out on pureed foods and thickened liquids. Let me tell ya, you haven't lived until you've spoon fed someone pudding thickened water. As far as reorienting them daily, so you want to be the one to tell a person daily that their spouse who they love is dead? Watch them go through that grief every day? It's cruelty. You tell they have gone to visit their brother/sister/mother whoever.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: They will:
-not realize that the sheet is something they are supposed to read
-not believe it
-begin reading it, forget they were reading it, get distracted, and then lose it, and then maybe come back to it and then the whole thing will start all over again
-they may have lost the capacity to read
-they may get very upset upon reading it and each time they see it, the information will be as if they are reading it for the first time.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My dad died from Alzheimer's in 2012.  He couldn't walk and could barely talk. He couldn't understand us that well either. He didn't know who he was or who any of us were. He would cry about having to go fight in the war and thought his wife was his mother. Maybe someone in early stages could benefit from this but I really think it wouldn't help much. It would have made things more confusing for my dad.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: The worst phase of any type of dementia is the phase in which the person has an awareness that something isn't right.  It's so hard to watch because you can see and feel  the terror they are experiencing.   For a while, as nurses,  we were told we should constantly reorient them.  I never felt good about doing that and for the most part said and/or did for them anything that decreased their anxiety.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: They tell you not to contradict Alzheimers patients because it will only upset them. For example I know someone whose Nan always thinks they're going on holiday whenever her family take her out somewhere. In the end they just had to tell her that wherever they go is somewhere they're visiting on holiday, even if they're just going to the park.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: > every truth about them

To cover everything someone has forgotten because of Alzheimer's, you'd need an incredibly dense fact sheet, like an encyclopedia, of the last few decades of their life. 

Edit: Obviously, this doesn't apply to all cases. In the instances of my family members, they lost so, so much I wouldn't even know where to begin.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Lists and calendars work well for early stage memory loss but as it progresses, it gets bad enough that it can't be grasped. Many Altzheimers patients become angry and blame others for what they are going though. 

We are still trying to get my mother in law diagnosed and it's almost been two years.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: If I had Alzheimer's,  I would want those facts laid before me, every last one of them.  And then, once I knew my reality was crumbling,  I would hold onto every last one of those horrible truths, and try to use them to tether myself to reality.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: The easiest way I can put it is this: could you imagine if you woke up to someone telling you everything about your life, and none of it is true? That would upset you pretty well, wouldn't it? It's the same thing with them.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Imagine you have terminal cancer, but every day you wake up thinking you don't. Each day is the same, living like you don't have cancer. Then imagine waking up every day learning you have terminal cancer and living that way. Somewhat like that.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Even if this worked it wouldn't grant them the ability to remember faces. From my understanding this is one of the largest negatives of alzheimers, you can't recognize your family even if you remember you have one.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Nothing like realizing you are diagnosed every time you look down, why don't we just keep putting fake winning lottery tickets in front of them, they would be so happy all the time.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Tagging on to this ELI5: reading comments and stories about people having Alzheimer's, why is it that their story is more or less the same every time they "wake up"?
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: If I had alzheimer's, I would listen to my favorite song over and over and over and over and over again.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Because they will probably lose the sheet and/or not know it's for them. 

I tried this already with my grandmother.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: My grandmother could only read the most basic sentences in the final stages of Alzhiemers, and she couldn't write.
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: Imagine being told that everything you think is going on is a lie.  Would you believe it?
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: They may at some point also forget how's to read and write as well
question: Why can't a person with Alzheimer's have a fact sheet in front of them at all times reminding them of every truth about them, including the fact that they have Alzheimer's, and that they are expected to be constantly confused? answer: I've heard that is an accurate representation of Alzheimer's. (Related)
_URL_1_
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because people will pay. Plain and simple. Capitalism at its best.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: convenience is the biggest factor
-people are not going to buy a 2 Liter cola and pour it into a smaller one for travel. Companies like Coke recognize this and exploit it. It might sound odd, however people are willing to pay more for a smaller coke because of personal preference. 

also this is capitalism.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Some of it is what's called "Point of Purchase" merchandise in the business. When you see that cooler next to the check out lane, those small soda bottles are marked up more because they are chilled, yes, but also because the store knows you'll buy something like that on an impulse because you want a cold soda immediately no matter the price. Same thing with small bags of chips or bubble gum which can be marked up slightly higher than normal in this case. This is slightly different than just buying things in bulk to save money.

As for water being expensive, it costs that much because people are willing to pay for it. It's just water after all, if everyone said, "Hey, what the hell are we playing 2 bucks for something I can get out of a tap for 5cents a gallon?" then it wouldn't exist. Bottled water can taste better than tap water depending on your water source, but a water filter at home would do about the same thing for hundreds of dollars less. It's a human quality to assume paying a lot for a product means it's better, even though a lot of it is just a placebo effect of increased pleasure.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Well, I would dispute your prices. A non-sale 2 liter of Coke is usually $1.99, bottles of coke are generally 20 oz, and you can easily find a 12 oz bottle of water for 80 cents. But the truth of the matter is that all three cost the manufacturer 5 cents to make. The prices are based on what the market for each will bear. The market for 2 liter soda bottles is different from the market for 12 oz bottles of soda and different from the market for bottled water. 2 liters are for home, parties, etc., 20 ozs are for personal use while on the move, are bottles of water are for health/hydration. The different markets mean different demand levels and different prices. There is no objective value for a product.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because they are different products. Okay, bear with me. 

MOST IMPORTANT PART OF THE ANSWER:
The 2L bottle is sold, warm, in bulk, for home consumption. The 20oz and the water are sold cold, individually for immediate consumption to carry with you. Each of these markets will bear a different cost, and so the company charges what people will pay. 

LESS IMPORTANT PART OF THE ANSWER:
In making a "bottle of beverage" usually most of the cost is in bottling and transport. The product itself is nearly free. For a bottle of coke, a manufactured product, they have a logistical system over a hundred years old to ship syrup (highly concentrated coke) and mix it with water local to the market of sale. This minimizes shipping cost and VATs. A bottle of water can only be "made" at the source and then shipped from there. That's why evian is expensive and arrowhead is cheap. Secondly, in the shipping, one can ship the 2L bottle more efficiently and the smaller bottles - that is, the crates contain less air. Plus, the 2L bottles themselves are simpler in shape, and have thinner plastic. Then, the 2L sells very efficiently off store shelves, while the 20oz takes up space in a cooler. 

In other words, water can actually be more expensive than coke, because coke can and does use any water source on the planet, and a 2L can plausibly be cheaper to bring to market that the 20oz.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: I work at sheetz (a gas station) and our 2 liters are kept in the open, so they're warm while the smaller bottles are kept in the cooler. So I think it's because of the refrigeration costs. Also people want to drink they're soda right away, so they'll pay more for the cold one.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: 3 Markets - On Premise, Home Market, and Convenience Retail

On Premise - Sales in Hotels, Restaurants and Cafs. Sold in BIBs (bag in a box), premix and limited bottle sales. Coca Cola literally loses money in the market because of costs associated with equipment service. Primary goal is brand exposure. 

Home Market - 2L bottles, bulk packages. Primary goal is to keep consumers drinking their brand at home. Limited profitability do to extreme competition for retail shelf space and merchandising costs. 

Convenience Retail - where Pepsi and Coke make nearly all their money. Single serve packaging. Huge markup. Low cost to market.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Compared with German pricing:  

1l Coca Cola - 0.99  
1.5l Coca Cola - 1.29  
2l Coca Cola - 1.49  

1.5l bottle of water - 0.29  

I don't get why water (edit: in America) would be so expensive!?
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Where on earth are you finding a 2 liter coke for $1?
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because the 20oz bottles of coke are usually sold cold, and 2 liters are warm. So essentially you're paying for the convince of being able to buy it and drink it cold as opposed to having to take it home and put it in your fridge. That's always been my take on it anyways.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: $1?! You're lucky if you can get a 2 litre bottle of Coca Cola here in England for less than 1.99, which converts to $3.33
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Market segmentation.  

The people at Coca-Cola who decide sizes and prices did research to figure out what sorts of people buy their products, and what those people are looking for. They figured out that their customers fall into different groups (broadly speaking), like people who are buying in bulk for a household, and people who are buying for convenience. 

The people who are buying in bulk don't care so much about the size of the product, so long as it is a good value (unit size per unit cost).  

People who want a convenient quick soda are less sensitive to a higher per-unit price, so long as it is cold, handy size and shape, and ready to go.

The people who buy bottled water tend to have the lowest cost-consciousness of all (not that there is anything wrong with that. People want different things at different times and that's ok). This is pretty obvious when you consider that water from the tap (in drinkable quantities) is essentially free: it's less than a penny per gallon throughout the US. Marketers who decide on what products to offer at what prices know that someone willing to buy a bottle of cold water is willing to spend more. 

Also, generally speaking, soda vs water consumption is inversely correlated with income level in the US. Poor people drink more soda and more wealthy people drink more water. When you know that your target market has a higher income, you can charge them more and they will be more willing and able to pay it.

Also, as said elsewhere in this thread, storing things cold is substantially more expensive than storing things at room temperature, so the extra cost of the cold drink is passed on the the customer.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: I'll answer each in relation to each other:

The 2 liter of cola is $1 (at it's low price) because of bulk sale. The more cola you buy, the less it costs per liter (try owning vending machines or fountain soda machines). Companies do this to encourage buying of large amounts of their products, which in reality makes them more money. The expensive part of a bottle of soda (for the company), is actually the bottle, the cap, and the ink the logo was printed with. Those 2 liters of cola costed them so little its not even worth mentioning. When you buy in larger quantities, you both reduce their costs and increase their sales:production ratio. 

The 12oz of cola is $1.49 because you aren't buying just "the soda". You're buying the convenience of a 12oz tasty softdrink in a place where you more than likely do not have easy access to larger quantities of cheaper drinks. They charge you $1.49 for the smaller bottle and for the fact that you won't be able to get another drink, so you're stuck paying whatever they tell you to pay.

The bottled water is $1.99 because *you will pay for it*. People always compare bottled water to tap water (with the vast difference in price), but bottled water does *not* compete with tap water. It competes with soda. And if you are the kind of person who is health conscientious and wants to drink water instead of soda, you are totally going to pay the extra $.50 for that water. 

tl;dr: capitalism all over that shit
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Where the fuck is a 2 liter of coke a buck?
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: You can get 1.5L water bottle for like 0.20 in Germany.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Everything is worth as much as people will pay for it.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Cause you still buy this shit. Supply and demand.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: having worked at coke in strategy, there is (in every business) a clear distinction between immediate consumption and future consumption products. the former being higher priced because the people want it then and there, thus are willing to pay for it. this is also why you never see chilled 2 liters or larger sizes, because people would just buy that and drink a little then throw the rest away because it would be cheaper than a 16oz bottle. its all about playing the market, consumer, and product placement (for impulse buys...do i really need sour patch kids?...fuck yeah i do.)
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because bottled water is the biggest rip-off ever invented.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: It's supply and demand.

People buy more of the cokes, allowing Coca-cola to sell at a lower price and still manage to get a decent total profit, all thanks to the [economies of scale](_URL_0_). To put it in numbers, if the net profit per small bottle of coke is $0.1 and 1000 get sold, they'll get $100 total net profit.

People buy less of the bottled water than the cokes. Selling it with small profit margin like the coke would result in a crappy low total profit, so they have to mark up the price to get a decent profit. To put it in numbers, if the net profit per small bottle of water is $1 but only 100 get sold, they'll get equally $100 total net profit.

Ultimately what really allows these pricing possible is because people are willing to buy at that price. Where I live, a bottle of water is $0.25 but people here buy coke and bottled water almost equally in quantities.

By the way, I've never seen a 2-liter coke on sale cheaper than a small bottle of coke. A small bottle of coke is $0.4 here. The 2L bottle is about $1.25.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: What I vaguely remember from high school econ is that companies maximize profits by opening their products to as many different markets as possible by stratifying prices.

The person who is willing to pay $2 for the bottle of water can afford to and that convenience is worth the $2 to them. The same argument goes for the smaller bottle of soda. But, the soda company doesn't want to shut out the people who would walk past the $1.49 single-serving bottle because of price. The cheaper-per-serving larger bottles are for the people not willing/able to pay more per serving but are willing to deal with the less convenient 2 liter bottles.

Boom. Drink company gets profit from customers willing to pay more for their product but doesn't lose out profit from more frugal customers.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: There was this guy who would bring a two liter bottle of orange soda to my 9am class everyday and drink it all by the end of class. Breakfast of champions.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: The 1.49 coke is refrigerated, the 1 dollar coke sits on a shelf and is warm. You're paying for convenience and refrigeration.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Convenience is one factor, but you also pay for the refrigeration. A $.99 2 liter is almost always room temperature.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: It comes down to one simple fact.

They charge what you will pay.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because it's costly to take the coke out of the water?
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: You pay for your convenience, simple as that.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: First, I somewhat have to take issue with your pricing.  Where I live, the supermarkets generally sell 2-liter bottles for $1.89 and vending machines and merchants sell a 20-oz for $1.25-$1.75.  Now, there's always some soda on sale for $1 for a 2-liter.  That seems like the price you're thinking about, but it isn't always Coke or the soda you'd most prefer.  This serves two purposes.  1) There are some people who might only buy soda at $1 for 2-liters.  They don't want to lose those sales, but would like to charge people willing to pay a higher price more.  There will be some people who are brand loyal and only get the $1 price a third of the time.  That way, the average selling price to people who are brand loyal and willing to pay $1.89 becomes $1.59 while the store doesn't lose out on the cheapskates.  2) Supermarkets need to entice you to purchase things.  Most people don't go to the supermarket thinking, "I need this item for the next 15 minutes".  So, they want to entice you to purchase it.  If you go to a lunch cafe or a vending machine, you're buying something that you want at that moment.  They don't need to entice you - you're thirsty and want to quench that thirst now, not on wednesday when you go shopping.

Second, usually when you buy a 2-liter of Coke, you're buying something that isn't refrigerated.  When you buy a 20-oz bottle, you're usually getting a refrigerated soda.  Refrigeration costs money (electricity to run the units and the units themselves).

Third, usually you purchase smaller bottles from more convenient locations.  You can't compare the supermarket price of a 2-liter bottle to the price you get for a soda in a more convenient location.  From the prices you quote, it sounds like you're comparing the price offered by a supermarket on sale for a 2-liter to the standard price offered by your local pizza place for a 20-oz.

**tl;dr:** With a 2-liter, you're pre-planning a purchase of an non-refrigerated beverage for later from a discount store; with a 20-oz bottle, usually you're grabbing a refrigerated one for immediate consumption from a convenient non-discount location.

In terms of water, many types of water are shipped.  Soda is an efficient beverage to transport.  They ship syrup to local bottling plants.  If a gallon of syrup makes 5 gallons of soda, they would need 5x the number of trucks hauling liquid for spring water.  I think a gallon of syrup making 5 gallons is probably a conservative estimate, but you can see how transportation takes its toll on the price of spring water in a way that it doesn't with soda.

For bottled tap water, there still may be a transportation issue if they don't have as many bottling centers.  Maybe it's the same water they put into Coke, maybe it isn't.  Even if it is, people get a certain price in their head for a type of product and spring and other bottled water seem like substitutes.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Price discrimination. It costs Coca Cola fractions of pennies to create the soda and a good 15-25 cents to create the packaging. After shipping, cost still might only be at 10% of market price. They can, and want to keep costs down to promote their product, which is uniquely competitive in the cola market in comparison to something like bottled water, which is comparable from countless companies and sources. In this way, the cola market is called a "tight oligopoly" and bottled water is in "perfect competition." 

On the other hand, everyone needs and wants water, and in particular, bottled water if they're parched while out and about. For a regular human, (apparently Americans trump this) thirst begs for water, not soda. And because water is theoretically a pure substance, it appeals to a universal market. Everyone needs it, and when they do, they will certainly buy it. Therefore, to turn a profit, Coca Cola only has to make their water cheaper than the next guy's bottled water. In this way, water maintains a higher demand than cola, so sellers can practice "price discrimination" and charge a greater amount (the same strategy Comcast uses).
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: The 2 liter one is not usually Refrigerated. Is also most often shipped on pallets, or in bulk settings. That is one reason why it may cost less. The 12/16 oz is usually served cold, or refrigerated, once the unit has been broken down and then chilled, that is overhead, it costs. I have never bought a bottle of water, hope I never have to, I have seen it for sale at stores, I guess is the general principal that Water is needed to survive, daily, so if sold, the seller can virtually ask what they will. In your example did you notice the water was more than both flavored , sugared and colored drinks are. by volume...
and buy volume, is supply and demand.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: I actually had a case study on this a while back for an entrepreneurship class at my college.

In short, the way that it works is that cost of manufacturing the bottled water is lower than the Coca-cola itself (less ingredients basically), but they spend a greater percentage of the end product cost on advertising campaigns geared to make people think that the bottled water is better for them than what comes from the tap.

Now, in some places this is actually true, but in the majority of the developed world this is not.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: In short, the price's not based on **VALUE**, but by the **DEMAND**. They know people won't buy the big one when they don't need it, because they're often lazy to carry such a big bottle, although cheaper, so they can afford (dare) to raise it. People simply buy small more often and they know it.

As for the water, there goes the same. If you *need* water, you will pay a lot. If you don't you can simply buy anything else. Music festivals take advantage of this all the time cause of hydration.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: US citizens pay taxes to subsidize corn farmers. Most products that use high fructose corn syrup use it because it is *far* cheaper than other sweeteners, because we all payed for nit to be that way. 

The smaller bottle is more expensive because it uses more plastic per unit volume than the 2 liter. The less plastic used per unit volume means the product will be cheaper. 

Water costs what it does because people pay for it at that cost level.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: You don't only pay for the cola itself but also for the packaging, production, storage, logistics etc. 100 bottles of 2 liter coke are cheaper to produce and manage than 400 bottles of 0,5 liter coke. That's why bigger capacity offer a better price/liter ratio most of the time.

As for bottled water, that must be an American thing because where I live (EU) bottled water is cheaper than any soda, by far.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: It has to do with what people are willing to spend. People are very stupid. You can exploit their stupidity and gain profits. I felt very bad about this at first. Now I am rich because people are too stupid to save money. It is what it is. They rather spend $2 on half the item than $1 on twice the amount which in turn leaves you hundreds of percent profit each day.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: If its a warm two liter then its cheaper because all it takes is shelf space, and if its a cold 12oz then your paying for the "privilege and connvience" of it already being cold. The water probably has more to do with the process they use, in which they filter the water to distilled water and then add chemicals to make it taste "natural"
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: As a former soft drink merchandiser, we were told to always fill the 12 oz bottles in the checkout lane coolers first because the sale of those brought the greatest value to the company. They are more expensive because people will buy them as impulse or for convenience. I would guess that the water is more expensive because more people drink water than pop.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Companies are going to sell stuff for the most money the average person is willing to pay for it. They also spend lots of money making people believe it is a good price. I mean 2 bucks for water that I can get for almost free out of my faucet but $2 does sound like a great deal.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Whenever there is a price difference such that the "smaller" version costs more-per-unit, the difference in price is the cost of storing or transporting the smaller amount so that it can be available to you when you want it. You're basically paying to rent the shelf-space until you're ready to pick up the rest.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Strange. Here in Australia you can get a bottle of water for like 80c but a 600m bottle of coke is $2 or more. We have deals at the supermarket that consist of about 5 litres of coke (4 1.25L) for $7 and that is normally really good.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Here in Finland coke/pepsi costs about 2.70 for a 1.5 litre bottle. Special offer for a two pack is usually 3.30. I'd say that price gives the drink a nice level of prestige and it glorifies the moment of consuption making the drink taste absolutely magnificent.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because you pay next to nothing for the resources, what costs is marketing, transportation, bottling and retailing. The prime product of added price is cereals. For products like Kellogg's cornflakes, less than 1% of the cost goes into the product (the corn and sugar).
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: In general terms, cost of goods for a company is cheaper on more mass produced items. There's certainly a point-of-purchase mark-up but this mark-up probably also includes the fact it costs more to make x times more small bottles than larger ones.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Cars don't have cupholders for 2 liter bottles.

Also; most of what you're paying for is the distribution and packaging of the coke, not the liquid itself... so most of the costs are about equivalent, they can charge more for convenience.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Horrible retail marketing and management but proves only that customers are not the brightest. Buy big or bulk save as well as buy water machines or purify your own. Summer time is coming soon will water atleast go down?
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Is 2l of coke really $1 in the US?

There is an offer on coke at my local supermarket at the moment, 2 bottles for 2.50, that's still $2.09. 

The USA really is the land of dreams.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: A 2 liter isn't convenient and is usually warm. 20 oz is usually cold and you're going to buy it if you're just looking for a quick drink. And bottled water costs more per gallon than gas.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: one (2liter versus 12oz) is a matter of convenience.

your paying for convenience (small size  &  refrigerated) your saving for bulk.

the other is just plain old "fuck you because we can" type mentality :-)
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Also you have to take in the consideration of the product being, "Fridged" People also like to buy there drinks cold. But yes mostly because people would rather buy the smaller size and drink it...cold.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Anyone wanting to quit drinking soda should start tracking how much they spend on it per week/month/year. 

I tracked my spending at starbucks and figured I blow $1200-$1400/year. Ive since bought a coffee maker.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: coke takes over the water supply of third world countries and sells it back to the people as sugar water. if it was up to coke, we would drink it instead of tap water.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because they know that if you're on the go, you're not going to buy the cheaper large bottle because you have nothing to pour it into.

They're fucking you right in the face.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: It kind of doesn't in europe. 

2l coke costs 1.99, 0.5l coke costs 1 and 1.5l water costs 0.3 - 0.5 in austria.

edit: Talking about water prices not different size bottles.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because cup holders. People need a size they can fit in their cars' cup holders so they'll pay double the price for a much smaller portion just for convenience.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because we're running out of water and Coca Cola and Nestle are buying up water rights everywhere and are just getting us used to paying more for water.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: It's because you're supposed to buy the copious amount of Coca-cola instead of the healthier but more expensive alternative. That's what being an American is all about.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: You are purchasing convenience. It is much more convenient to bring a 12 oz beverage with you than a larger gallon - sized jug of water.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: If lottery is tax on the poor then bottled water is tax on stupid because it is the same or worse quality as tap.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because Americans are unwilling to just tell the store it wants the item worse than than they do and let the store keep it.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: I don't know about the cola, but you can charge anything you like for bottled water, because people who drink bottled water are idiots.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Where do you get Cocacola for $1, where the hell do you live? In Australia we pay $5 for a 2L.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because the kind of people who will buy water are so fucking stupid they will pay whatever it costs.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: The most interesting part is that a gallon of water is only a dollar. 

Impulse buys.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Companies don't charge what a product is worth;  they charge what they feel people will pay.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: I dont want a large farva I want a goddam liter of cola!
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: If you're dumb enough to pay it. I'm dumb enough to charge it.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because thanks to some great marketing, people will pay $1.99 for water.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because soda is bad for you and they want to make money.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Government Subsidies help and people are willing to pay that price.
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: The question should be "Why am I drinking bottled water...?"
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: And why can't I just get a god damn literacola
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Dude, it's not the same price at **EVERY** fucking store!
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: why is the top comment not a real informative answer?
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because it's town water sweetened with high fructos corn syrup
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: ELI5: why do you compare 2L with 12 ounce?
question: Why is a 2 liter of Coca-cola $1, a 12 oz bottle $1.49 and the same size bottle of water $1.99? answer: Because we live in a stupid, fucked-up world.
question: How can someone be too over qualified for a job and not be hired for that reason?[removed] answer: It costs an employer money to hire an employee.  They have to spend time looking for them, and then spend time training them. They also come to rely on that employee to be there to do work.  

Overqualified employees are seen as more likely to leave a job when they have the opportunity to do so. As a result, all of those sunk costs are more likely to be lost to the employer faster than with a qualified employee.  

Beyond that, there are also considerations of morale and fit. Although certainly not often the case, it happens that "overqualified" people might think that a job is beneath them and therefore not take that job or others at that level seriously.  This can lead to bad work and even poison the whole work environment. 

Those are the two principal reasons that this can be an issue.
question: How can someone be too over qualified for a job and not be hired for that reason?[removed] answer: One of the main reasons someone who is overqualified for a role won't be hired for that reason is that the employer is concerned they will get bored of it too quickly and leave, as they may not find it challenging/stimulating enough. Also, the employer may be worried they'll continue to search for a better job with higher pay that they could get with their qualifications, so that's another way they risk losing the employee.
question: How can someone be too over qualified for a job and not be hired for that reason?[removed] answer: People who are overqualified are likely to be unsatisfied with their work.  They know they can leave and find a better job for more money.  Since it takes time to hire  &  train somebody, why bother with the guy who is going to jump ship in 2 months when he finally finds the job he wants?
question: How can communities where polygamy is common, have a large enough quantity of females when the the boy to girl ratio is around 1:1 ?I have mostly Fundamentalist Church of Latter Day Saints and Muslim communities in my head but i know that there are plenty more that have polygamy as a part of their culture/tradition. answer: These communities typically fall into one of two categories:

1) Males tend to have higher death rates than females, likely due to active armed conflict with another group

2) Most males, for one reason or another, are socially ostracized and kicked out at a young age, leaving more women than men remaining in the community.
question: How can communities where polygamy is common, have a large enough quantity of females when the the boy to girl ratio is around 1:1 ?I have mostly Fundamentalist Church of Latter Day Saints and Muslim communities in my head but i know that there are plenty more that have polygamy as a part of their culture/tradition. answer: They have some mechanism of getting right of excess men and acquiring excess women.

Many societies that practiced polygamy were fairly violent and prone to warfare.  Young men eager to win a wife would take greater risks and often die, and women were often taken as spoils of war.

Other societies, particularly subcultures within a monogamous society, would find ways to expel men while more actively recruiting women.

Finally, even in polygamous societies, polygamy was unusual...most men would only have one wife, and only the elite would have more than one.
question: How can communities where polygamy is common, have a large enough quantity of females when the the boy to girl ratio is around 1:1 ?I have mostly Fundamentalist Church of Latter Day Saints and Muslim communities in my head but i know that there are plenty more that have polygamy as a part of their culture/tradition. answer: Muslim here. According to Quran you can marry up to 4 if you can be just between them. "But if you fear that you will not be just, then [marry only] one or those your right hand possesses. That is more suitable that you may not incline [to injustice]."

So, It's not really encouraging to do so, also only one and it's a hassle (jk).

I bet we (Muslims) get more surprised when we heard someone have more than one wife, not surprised like maybe you do with "that's wrong" but with "that's rare". The cause may be that as long as the ratio is 1:1 Women will not like to be a second wife. Supply and demand just like anything else.

But I can think of some communities that's this problem but not because polygamy, Like Japan where 45% of females have no interest on sex/relations/marriage while only 25% of men don't have interest on that, Or countries like USA and Brazil where the number of gays is the double of lesbians add to that men on prisons more than women...
question: How can communities where polygamy is common, have a large enough quantity of females when the the boy to girl ratio is around 1:1 ?I have mostly Fundamentalist Church of Latter Day Saints and Muslim communities in my head but i know that there are plenty more that have polygamy as a part of their culture/tradition. answer: They don't.  There's some number of men who never marry as a result.
question: How can communities where polygamy is common, have a large enough quantity of females when the the boy to girl ratio is around 1:1 ?I have mostly Fundamentalist Church of Latter Day Saints and Muslim communities in my head but i know that there are plenty more that have polygamy as a part of their culture/tradition. answer: Er, I hope you meant Mormon instead of Amish.
question: How can communities where polygamy is common, have a large enough quantity of females when the the boy to girl ratio is around 1:1 ?I have mostly Fundamentalist Church of Latter Day Saints and Muslim communities in my head but i know that there are plenty more that have polygamy as a part of their culture/tradition. answer: In cultures where this is common, usually the wealthiest men take the most wives. So if you are very well-off and an important person in the community, you will have several wives. (And, historically when polygyny was more widespread, a king or sultan might have hundreds of wives.) Ordinary "middle class" sort of men probably only have one or maybe two wives. Poor men are never able to marry at all.

So that's what happens to all the extra men: they just don't get married at all.
question: How can communities where polygamy is common, have a large enough quantity of females when the the boy to girl ratio is around 1:1 ?I have mostly Fundamentalist Church of Latter Day Saints and Muslim communities in my head but i know that there are plenty more that have polygamy as a part of their culture/tradition. answer: Being in a polygamous community doesn't mean that everyone marries.
question: How can communities where polygamy is common, have a large enough quantity of females when the the boy to girl ratio is around 1:1 ?I have mostly Fundamentalist Church of Latter Day Saints and Muslim communities in my head but i know that there are plenty more that have polygamy as a part of their culture/tradition. answer: You are referring to polygyny (one man, multi wives) specifically not polygamy in general (more than one spouse). There is also polyandry (one woman, multi husbands).

There is also a big difference between allowed and common. It is normal for rich men to have a wife and a mistress, so why are there any women left anywhere?
question: Why don't humans give birth in dozens like most animals? answer: Think of how much help a human baby needs to grow up. When they are born they can't even crawl. They need months and months of a milk diet from their mother, and even once they start walking they are still pretty much helpless. 

Now imagine if every time a woman got pregnant she had a dozen children? In a less civilized setting, that woman would almost certainly be unable to care for most of them. 

It takes over a decade to produce a child capable of fending for himself, and humans don't become fully grown until their early twenties!

Compare that to puppies, who often don't take much longer than six months to get to the point where they can fend for themselves, and only a year or two to be fully grown. Even then though, puppy litters of more than six often need a human caretaker to make sure all of them get enough milk from their mother.

Then you get to animals like Salmon, who lay thousands of eggs, then die. They don't provide any resources to their offspring at all, but their offspring are capable of fending for themselves from the moment of their birth, although most of them do not make it to adulthood.

The amount of children an animal has at once is decided by how much effort needs to be put in to making sure those children live to be adults.
question: Why don't humans give birth in dozens like most animals? answer: I don't know why you think "most animals" give birth in dozens. Just off the top of my head, elephants, cows, horses, and other primates do not give birth in dozens.
question: Why don't humans give birth in dozens like most animals? answer: It seems like the bigger the animal, the more effort it takes to raise offspring, and corresponding fewer of them. Elephants and wales don't give birth to many offspring, and they raise them for a longer time. On the other end of the spectrum, you have insects that don't care for the offspring very much and they breed prolifically. Somewhere in between you have animals that birth in medium sized batches and they put some considerable effort into, but not more than a year or so.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: We don't know. There are a number of theories about this. To clarify, while the increase may be exaggerated by people who falsely claim intolerance when they probably have other health issues (or are hypochondriacs), there is actually an increase in people with diagnosable gluten intolerance. And gluten intolerance is different than celiac. I'm taking here about gluten intolerance. Some possible causes include changes in the gut microbiome and changes in how we process and make bread.

Changes in the gut microbiome are a likely cause/contributor but the causes and effects of that are just stating to be understood, and barely. So I won't go into that too much, but if anyone has questions I may be able to answer.

On the processing side, one interesting theory is that the germ of wheat helps us process the gluten in some way. It has lots of nutrients, vitamins, fats, etc. Modern wheat flour (even most whole grain stuff) is made by separating the germ from the rest of the wheat first, then processing. This causes the flour to keep longer but removes all those nutrients. This is why flour/cereals need to be fortified. However, we only fortify with the vitamins and minerals for which we notice obvious deficiencies. So it's entirely feasible that we are neglecting to add something back into the flour that helps SOME people not develop gluten intolerance. This may be via some immune response or due to changes caused in the gut microbe (e.g. we are no longer giving some micronutrients to a specific bacteria in our gut so it dies out. That bacteria helped us process gluten or a byproduct and without its help we get sick). It's also possible that our body just needs some nutrient in the germ to process gluten efficiently. We really just don't know.

Tldr: shits complicated literally

edit: First, I know the difference between a theory and hypothesis. I was using the term colloquially, which *even scientists* do sometimes.

People seem to have extrapolated way more than they should have from my comment. Like are asking me where to buy bread with wheat germ and how to fix their gut microbes. That's really not how this works. Anybody who gives you an easy answer to your problems is probably trying to sell you something (I'm looking at you, supplement/probiotics industry...). 

Until relatively recently we didn't even know bacteria could survive in your gut, so expecting the scientific community to have a solid understanding of the gut microbiome now is absurd. These questions span the fields of nutrition, microbial ecology, microbe-host interactions, immunology, and more. I'm sure there are hundreds of plausible explanations, but we are VERY FAR AWAY from definitively answering most questions related to the gut microbe. We DO know that it affects digestive health, mood, weight, and all kinds of other human physiology. What we don't know is how to bend it to our will or how it causes all of these things. We do know that the answer is complicated. How do different bacteria interact with each other in your gut, and then with your body? We also don't know much about that. But we're learning.

There is a unique soup of maybe 1000 species of bacteria in your gut, and they are mostly different than the species that live in mine. We are just starting to learn how specific individual species of bacteria can affect their hosts. But even with this research, we don't think that it will be the same in everyone.

example: Maybe bacteria A has effect B on me, but it has effect C on you, because I have bacteria Q in my gut and you don't, and bacteria Q is necessary for effect B. Now consider that x 1000 species, and that a genetic component also affects this, and diet and stress levels and fitness also affect this. See where I'm going?

We do know that the gut microbe is influenced by stress, diet, sleep, environmental exposure, your parents, exercise, infection, travel, antibiotics, alcohol consumption, genetics, epigenetics (which is affected by all of these things and more), social habits, sun exposure, etc. Just to name a few. The extent to which these affect each person is probably highly variable. So asking about specific solutions or a quick fix is a waste of time, especially on the internet. And if you have a shitty diet - especially one high in carbs and sugar - or high stress levels, or you drink a lot, addressing those first is probably a smarter solution than asking about wheat germ and special bread and probiotics (may work in some cases for some people sometimes, and usually not as a "fix" but as a supplement. it's just not well studied enough.) and GMOs (no evidence of them affecting any of this or even a feasible mechanism for how they would). 

tldr2: no really, shit's complicated. Something that works for one person may not for another for hundreds of reasons that we don't know much about yet, but are sort-of on the verge of understanding. This is also why the human microbiome is so hard to study. Remember, none of this is well researched enough for there to be standardized advice for anybody outside of the normal "live a healthy lifestyle" advice, and slowly figuring out what makes you feel better. So don't ask for a quick fix and don't trust anyone who offers one. Here are some links about the microbiome and a couple on the microbiome and gluten. 

_URL_4_

_URL_0_

_URL_2_

_URL_3_

_URL_1_

_URL_6_

_URL_7_

edit2: yes, non celiac wheat/gluten intolerance exists. some studies have shown that people who claim to have it do not, but that does not encompass all the literature. the key to those studies is that they were looking at SELF REPORTED gluten intolerance, so basically your average "but gluten" person, not people who were medically evaluated and thought to have it. turns out you just have to find the right people to study (who actually have it). just skim this google scholar search and you will see significant evidence of its existence: _URL_5_
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Just so we're clear: Allergy to gluten is a thing, but is different from celiac disease. Both are well-defined and different from gluten intolerance, which is less clear. 

The most common explanation for increased allergies is the hygiene hypothesis. The idea is that aggressive modern hygiene removes the parasites and bacteria that help calibrate the immune system, leaving it more likely to react to harmless targets.

It's also been suggested that modern wheat could be more allergenic. The cross-breeding of new wheat strains in the 1960s, which allowed us to feed billions of people, could have selected for a protein variant that immune systems just don't like. Modern wheat processing has also been noted as a potential contributor.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: There's a great Netflix 4-part documentary called Cooked that delves into this. The documentary series 4 parts were titled Earth, Air, Fire  &  Water, and it looked at an anthropological history of our diets and hunting/eating/cooking rituals. The Air episode was all about bread, and about how it has been a staple of our diets for so long.

Their postulate was that for the vast majority of people, gluten isn't the issue. Sure there are some people for whom the gluten is the problem, they just assume it is because modern bread doesn't agree with them because of the accelerated processes they use to make it. Or perhaps there used to be something in bread that prevented gluten from having such an adverse reaction.

It used to be that bread was fermented. The dough was a living, breathing colony. In more recent years, to speed up the bread making process, instead of allowing the natural bacteria in the water supply to thrive in the wheat and change it - they instead use "clean" additives, such as yeast.  Due to this, there are various nutrients that used to be in bread that aren't any more, so manufacturers have also added fortifications in also, to make up for those that were missing and actually have it be nutritious. 

TLDR: The bread we eat now isn't really anything like the bread our bodies evolved with.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Gluten intolerance remains fairly rare, and often not particularly severe. We have higher expectations for our own health now that we ever had in the past, so historically, people with a sensitivity to gluten may have just ignored it.

Further, while many people relied on wheat-based food products, it wasn't the only diet out there, and only became as dominant as it is now in the 20th century.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: A documentary was made for this exact question. It's called Cooked: Air.

From what I remember, it basically said that the way we make bread has changed drastically in the past 200 years (wonder bread, pure white flour, instant yeast, etc.) and that is what has caused people's "gluten allergies," not to be confused with Celiac's disease. It says that the original way to make bread, with homemade flour and long periods of fermentation, is better for people, and that most people aren't allergic to it.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Probably the same reason people are lactose intolerant. Unless milk could actually out right kill them, they stay in the gene pool. 

I've been drinking milk since I was a kid. Had bad cramps every day. But since every kid eats cereal for breakfast, milk being the culprit never dawned on me. Suddenly lactose-free milk comes out, I suddenly find that moo juice was the cause. I'm sure generations have suffered the same fate before me.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Reddit has a weird hate boner about gluten, so a lot of folks are going to tell you the rise in allergies is psychosomatic. [That's not true:](_URL_8_) 

 >  For reasons that remain largely unexplained, the incidence of celiac disease has increased more than fourfold in the past sixty years. Researchers initially attributed the growing number of cases to greater public awareness and better diagnoses. But neither can fully account for the leap since 1950. Murray and his colleagues at the Mayo Clinic discovered the increase almost by accident. Murray wanted to examine the long-term effects of undiagnosed celiac disease. To do that, he analyzed blood samples that had been taken from nine thousand Air Force recruits between 1948 and 1954. The researchers looked for antibodies to an enzyme called transglutaminase; they are a reliable marker for celiac disease. **Murray assumed that one per cent of the soldiers would test positive, matching the current celiac rate. Instead, the team found the antibodies in the blood of just two-tenths of one per cent of the soldiers.** Then they compared the results with samples taken recently from demographically similar groups of twenty- and seventy-year-old men. In both groups, the biochemical markers were present in about one per cent of the samples.

The whole article is interesting, and it's well reported (it's from the New Yorker, not some sketchy clickbait "_URL_9_" meme your aunt posts on Facebook).
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: a little off topic : one thing I read a long time ago in nature before the anti-gluten trend we're seeing.  It was an article about fibre in our modern western diets.  and how we lack a lot of fibre in our diets and how the lack of fibre causes the lower intestines to not be healthy, getting swollen and enflamed.  When the lower intestines get to this stage, gluten can and has been shown to pass through the walls into the blood stream. At that point, once past the barrier,  problems occur.  It was a good read and I'm sure I'm paraphrasing it way wrong, but what I took from it, because our diets are bad in one way it's causing other problems to appear.  And you didn't have to have an allergy or Celiacs to see some of the problems appearing.   note: I think this is very different then the trend we are seeing today where everybody is afraid of the "glutens" 

I'd love to find that old magazine or online version to re-read it and see how relevant it is.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: The wheat of today and the wheat of our ancestors is vastly different in terms of constitution, cultivation and processing. It has been hybridized for greater yield, bathed in pesticides and then largely stripped of its remaining nutrition to produce the ubiquitous wheat flour that is in a huge percentage of our foods today. Our bodies have had essentially 1-2 generations to adapt to this largely new food product that has more differences than similarities to the ancient grain and subsequent processing our ancestor's bodies were accustomed to. 

Also, ITT people are conflating true wheat (gluten) allergy with wheat (gluten) sensitivity. These are matters of degree and have significant differences. 

edit: sp
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: [The vast majority of people who claim gluten sensitivity, etc, are just deluded.](_URL_10_) Actual gluten sensitivities are pretty rare, celiac much rarer still, and wheat allergies the rarest of all.

But how did that survive? Allergies aren't hereditary (though there is thought to be a genetic component), and most of this stuff isn't serious enough to kill you before you have a chance to breed.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Allergies aren't something that dissappear because of natural selection. Gluten intolerance isn't even the weirdest one you can have. You can be allergic to:

- Pollen, which have always been everywhere.
- Cats and dogs, while humans have been keeping dogs for a long time.
- Semen. Yep.
- Water, I had a minor water allergy when I was younger.

None of those make any sense when looking at our history, but an allergy is (most of the time) just your immune system that lost track about what's good and bad.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: We do not actually have a large number of people allergic to bread. We have some, and due to finding it they are more likely to survive till adulthood, and we are better at identifying people with Celiac, but we have not actually had a major increase in either from historical norms. Identifying something better is not an increase. 

Most of what you are seeing is not even people with a gluten intolerance, gluten allergy, or Celiac. It is the current fad diet and pseudo-scientific dietary advice demonizing gluten causing people to avoid that we are seeing.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Most people who do not eat gluten are not actually allergic to it, by which I mean they do not have a histamine reaction. There are, however, many other factors which discourage it's consumption.

1. Genetic modification. Over the past fifty years especially, we have bred wheat to have more and more of the glutenous protein because it's what makes pizza and other bread products so stretchy and delicious. Our bodies may be having trouble keeping up. This means our gut can't digest it as easily. 

2. Processing. White bread was a miracle once! But it lacks the fiber, fats, and nutrients that wheat originally had. Bad for you? Maybe. Good for you? No. Bread products are rarely fermented anymore, which was arguably the most important step in being able to eat flour. Gluten causes awful neurological and gastrointestinal symptoms for me, but I can eat homemade (truly fermented) wheat sourdough no problem.

3. Overabundance. Gluten and various derivatives are used in almost every processed food, so our consumption levels are somewhat camouflaged. This also means that when you cut out gluten, you're also cutting out a lot of preservatives, sugars, and other fairly undesirable food products.

4. Inflammation. Whether due to our inability to digest it or other reasons, gluten is known to cause inflammation, in levels that vary person to person. Inflammation in your gut reduce your body's ability to absorb nutrients. Whether or not you're allergic to gluten, reducing systemic inflammation by not eating can have benefits in a wide variety of disorders, from MS to schizophrenia to Krohns and beyond.

5. Chemicals. In America at least, many farms douse their fields in RoundUp just before harvest because it increases yield. That means the wheat is full of heavy chemicals. For Americans at least, we may not be allergic to wheat, but heavy chemicals can still mess you up pretty badly.

[Here](_URL_11_) is a New Yorker article that discusses many factors. 

Edit: link
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Because most people aren't allergic to it.  They jumped on the gluten free bandwagon.  Studies are starting to show that avoiding gluten, if you don't actually have gluten intolerance, is bad because you miss out on the nutrients and vitamins your body needs.  Gluten free is a fad, people think it will help them lose weight, but it's not cutting the gluten that helps lose weight.  Plus gluten just sounds like a nasty thing.  So people believe it needs to be eliminated from their diets.

_URL_12_
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Actual medically diagnosed gluten sensitivities, due either to Celiac Disease or allergy, remain extremely rare. There is zero evidence that either of those conditions are any more common today than they were a thousand years ago.

However, they do exist. There are, and always have been, people among us who are negatively impacted by gluten. The difference is that those people now have access to social media where they can tell many, many people at a time how terrible their symptoms are. And a lot of those people hear that and wrongly believe that gluten is bad for everybody. They begin to manifest psychosomatic symptoms, futher convincing them. Then they find out, after further research, that not everybody has this sensitivity. But their imagined symptoms convince them that they themselves do. Thus is born their claim of gluten sensitivity in the absence of any medical diagnosis. 

The same exact thing has happened with aspartame. There is an exceedingly rare condition called phenylketonuria that makes aspartame very toxic to its sufferers. I knew a girl in highschool who had it. Aspartame would give her seizures. But, like I said, it's rare. For anybody without phenylketonuria, aspartame is harmless. But the symptoms of phenylketonuria hit social media and people read about it and concluded that aspartame must be terribly toxic! The result is that a huge movement of scientifically illiterate people are now anti-aspartame. Nevermind that this logic is exactly the same as saying that nobody should ever eat seafood because some people are allergic to it.  (Personally, I avoid aspartame drinks because they all taste like the first syllable in "aspartame" - but I'm not afraid of them.)
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: So there's a lot at work here.  Ignoring whether or not I believe anyone who said they have trouble eating wheat (because I'm not such an asshole that I'll call someone a liar about how they feel when they eat food) I'll say this.  5000 years is basically an evolutionary hiccup.  It's nothing compared to the million years we've been humans. Also, if we accept that something about eating wheat isn't ideal for the digestive system, then it stands to reason that the damage done is not short term.  Long term woes (those that occur over decades) don't really impact evolution. Moreover, the way modern people eat wheat IS dldifferent than it was in the past.  Our wheat is a different subspecies, it is prepared differently, in different quantities, and with greater frequency.  

On top of that  it's eaten WITH different things that compound bodily stress (that is to say, he amounts of sugar and corn products).  Hard to say whether the combinations might be important (like joker makeup).
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Combination of: 
A lot of people who claim a gluten allergy/sensitivity are just people eating better and blaming it on the gluten free part of their new diet--trading tons of pasta/pizza/cookies/etc. for fresh fruits and vegetables is bound to make anyone feel better

Hygiene hypothesis (and other possible causes) for an increase in allergies overall

Some gluten tolerances were relatively minor annoyances "back then", it's only in modern times that we have time and energy to worry about things like stomach aches

And finally, people with true Celiac disease simply died. It could be chalked up to some common ailment like the flu or a stomach bug, humans didn't have much time or ability to investigate things like that before the modern era.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: It's actually simpler than it seems if you separate an auto-immune disorder (celiac), from the intestinal distress, bloating, and discomfort many people experience from bread.

The processes in which bread is made normally includes a "ripening" time where the dough rises and the yeast digests fully or partially pre-digests for you the parts of the wheat that cause digestive distress.

In an effort to maximise efficiency large scale, must speed up the process usually by using additives to the yeast to let the bread rise faster and allow for faster preparation times. Even your local baker can't let bread rise for 2-24 hours (depending on the bread) while checking it in between, it needs more predictability and consistency.

The rise of wheat intolerance (not celiac) falls nicely inline with mechanisation of the production line of bread products.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: My understanding is that the rise of gluten-sensitivities has less to do with the food, and more to do with the farming and harvesting methods.  Roundup has been around since 1974, and has been used by nearly every farmer in the country until relatively recently with the rise of organic farms.  A common practice is to spray the whole wheat crop down with roundup shortly before harvesting in order to reduce the strain on machinery.  There's still a lot of debate on this matter, but I have a feeling we're going to look back on modern farming techniques the same way we view surgery during the civil war.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: This doesn't account for the last 5k years, but this article has a bit on the history of the discovery and diagnosis of celiac disease, _URL_13_

It was a mystery in the 30s when it started to become more widely recognized, but doctor's still didn't find the cause of the allergy until the 50s following world war II. A dutch doctor, "noticed that in the last few years of World War II, when bread was unavailable in the Netherlands, the mortality rate from celiac disease dropped to zero."

Before that point and before the time period this article covered, people would more than likely die from an allergy to gluten and people would see it as severe malnutrition and gastrointestinal problems but not be able to  determine why. Now we have more information and diagnostic tools to be able to identify gluten allergies so it seems like the rate has increased dramatically when really its just finally getting noticed.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: There's no scientific evidence for it. Celiac disease is a thing. Gluten intolerance appears not to be. A lot of people say they have it, but there is no evidence under lab conditions. Here's an easy to read article that cites sources: _URL_14_
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: There are not many people "allergic" to glutens. It's just another health food fad.

Yes, gluten sensitivity does exist...but very few people actually have it. Most are just Nocebo'ing themselves into having symptoms.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Because "gluten allergies" are not a real thing for 99.991% of the people who say they are afflicted.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Traditional (sourdough) bread only had three ingrediants: flour, water, and salt. But bread needs to rise and this took a lot of time before there was additives such as fast acting yeast and leaven. 

A sourdough bacterial culture takes 5 days to cultivate and when you create the bread you'll need to let the dough rise for another 12-24 hours before baking it. 

This slow fermentation process breaks down the difficult to digest gluten fibres in the bread, And this does not happen now with fast acting yeast and leaven and it's just now kicking our butt. 

A great book on this topic is Cooked: A Natural History of Transformation by Michael Pollan. It has also been turned into a documentary on Netflix.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: I knew this kid that used to come to our regular poker games who was celiac. 

He had that look about him, the one that says "i've spent 8% of my life on the toilet." 

Our games would go pretty late - 5am or later - and around midnight these fat fucks we played with would order their burgers and donuts. When the food came this kid would high-tail the fuck out of there and basically sit in a locked room, waiting for these animals to devour midnight snack. When the coast was clear, celiac boy would come out with wet wipes, sanitize all surfaces and swap out the decks to his own clean cards. 

Decent player, nice dude, good-looking and smart but being in the same room as a cruller would turn him into a shit volcano for weeks
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Part of the equation is education and the availability of alternatives, another is fad elimination diets.

Celiac disease is difficult to diagnose and wasn't widely understood until relatively recently. It affects around 1 in 100 people and can be life threatening if gluten isn't eliminated entirely from the diet. That's not the same as a gluten allergy, but the recognition of it has caused a surge in foods that are safe for sufferers (and fad followers) to eat. 

This is part of a broader trend over the past couple of decades, where food companies have realized the demand for alternative products - consider, when compared to a decade ago, how many different milks are available now, how many foods are nut-free, or vegan, or paleo and so on. It's part real health needs, part fad, but all necessary to remain competitive if you're selling processed food.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: One thing bout biological evolution.  If it doesn't kill you before you breed, or inhibit breeding in any other way, it will not be thinned out from the gene pool.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Shortest answer: Bread was made out of different grains throughout our history - spelt, emmer (Farro), and einkorn to name a few.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: 1% of the population are entirely gluten intolerant. 

The other 85% of those who *say* they are gluten intolerant are either hypochondriacs, liars or attention seekers.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: I literally once watched a documentary on bread... don't ask I love bread. But they mentioned how the strains of wheat they farmed in ancient civilizations don't even exist today. Also, that type of wheat was hand-milled, fermented and then baked. Apparently, there some very rustic/homemade types of sourdough bread that do not irritate those who are normally allergic/intolerant to gluten.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Celiac has been around for thousands of years. It has been identifiable more recently. Many people that actually have Celiac don't know they have it. For instance my younger sister was diagnosed at a young age, and it typically runs in the family. Doctors think my grandmother had it and never had it diagnosed, similar to my father._URL_15_ This shows some proof of origins reaching back 2000 years.  

edit- bad spelling
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Stone ground wheat flour of yesteryear is not the same as enriched wheat flour of today.

It is missing key nutrients.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Those genetics didn't survive. 200 years ago those would die and not pass it down to their offspring.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: A short and efficient answer would be that something has changed about humans that is unrelated to genetics. For example, if gut flora populations were modified by modern diet, stress, sedentary lifestyle, chemical exposure, or any other factor, that would impact our ability to digest certain foods (as well as mental health demograhpics).
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Most people who think they're allergic to gluten are not, in fact, allergic to gluten. Only about 1% of Americans, for example, have the actual medical condition. About 10x that many have convinced themselves that they have a problem with gluten through casual observations and assumptions.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: We don't, gluten-free is mostly a fad that people are blindly following because it's been marketed extremely effectively.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: One possible reason: _URL_16_

The hypothesis is basically that the practice of crop desiccation causes wheat in the food supply to contain traces of glyphosate, which in turn causes allergic reactions. I.e., perhaps it isn't the wheat, it's what's on/in the wheat.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: 99% of people on gluten diets are not allergic to gluten, they're merely hopping on a bandwagon where people think gluten is bad for you. Gluten is only bad for you if you have celiac disease, which is extremely rare. The media has interviewed people who claim to be on gluten-free diets if they know what gluten is or what it does and almost all of them had no clue other than "it's bad for you", "it makes you fat", "companies add it into bread as a chemical additive",etc...
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: One person I knew who was allergic to gluten said that she was able to eat wheat in other countries; it was only wheat grown and processed in the US that gave her digestive problems. Her grandmother had the same issue.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: I'd say it's in part the hormones and the degree of modifications our food (or food in the western Hemisphere) goes through. I spent a month in a 3rd world country with my wife who is gluten and lactose intolerant. She had all bread and dairy products all month without any issues. This is a country whose government refused to sign up to the international seed and farmer programs which would've ensured that any seeds, livestock or poultry could be genetically modified and shipped across borders.... Sort of like what Monsanto and other companies have modelled their businesses after.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Not every culture survived off bread for 5000 years. Lots of cultures eat predominantly corn, rice, or tef, all of which are gluten free.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: one answer could be that bread used to take multiple days to make, and it only recently began to be made in a matter of hours. I watched a documentary on Netflix, called 'whats with wheat' or somethin like that. look it up. its a good doc.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: - Celiac leads to failure to absorb nutrients, if you don't absorb nutrients then you die from either starvation or "failure to thrive" due to the resulting weakening of your immune system that leaves you succeptible to all sorts of other things.  So many people just didn't live to adulthood if they didn't figure out to avoid it. Allergy (not celiac) would lead to a major immediate response upon eating, which likely could also kill someone if severe, or lead someone to avoid the thing altogether. Intolerance (also not celiac) would cause mostly minor discomforts that wouldn't really be noticable to most people concerned more with survuival than optimal health. 

- Testing availability and knowledge. Even just about a decade or two ago, there were doctors who still didn't know about celiac and the only way to be diagnosed formally involved a stomach biopsy (not a simple procedure), so most people with it were not formally diagnosed and so not recorded as having celiac for any sort of reporting - typically they would just try to avoid gluten bearing foods as a result of that being a possiblity, and if it worked keep it up.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Can I just say this thread makes me really happy. :) I fully expected to open this and find a whole bunch of "whatever, Gluten intolerance is made up and only people with Celiacs can complain!" I understand Celiacs must suuuuuuck! They definitely get dibs, But it's also pretty lame to have insane back pain, cramps, headaches etc., and deal with people saying you're making it up :/ Like no, I don't eat pizza and doughnuts because I'm in it for the long con /s  
Edit: scrolled further and there was almost word for word that comment, so I guess there was some of that here, but at least there was mostly helpful stuff here! :)
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: A few have already said this, but Celiac Disease (an autoimmune disease, where the body's immune system reacts to the gluten protein negatively, i.e. "allergy") is different from gluten intolerance (which is just the bodies' inability to properly digest the gluten proteins).  

They are not the same thing. And many people who go to restaurants who say they are "allergic to gluten" are just people who change their diet because the "feel better" without gluten. Although they could be right, most of the folks who make this determination but have not taken a true test are at best guessing, but at most probably just intolerant.  So the numbers are probably a lot skewed.  As the saying goes beggars can't be choosers... but we in modern society can.  

As for the numbers of allergies increasing; there are a lot of theory. The most quoted one is the hygiene hypothesis. Also, frankly, I don't buy that one (at least not completely). For one, there are clearly other factors at play; e.g. what kind of diseases one is exposed to (and there what kind of immune response the body mounts), where one lives, where one was born and where one moves to.  Most of the hypothesis are still guessing at it... but the real answer is we don't really yet know why we have more allergies than previous centuries.  But also, we have factors more people than we ever had before. Many kids in the old days didn't make it pass childhood, so perhaps many people before died before they reached adulthood due to some of these factors.  My guess is that all of the hypothesis probably contribute in some way.  

TL;DR -- Most people who claim "allergy" to gluten are probably intolerant. And for the most part we don't really know why overall allergies have increased... but probably a due to many factors combined. 

source: human bio degree  &  took a few years of Immunology
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: My theory: Because wheat now is pretty different than 100 years ago. In the agricultural revolution of the 50s and 60s wheat was cross bred to create shorter strains, therfore reducing the height of the wheat and increasing potential yield. Wheat was so tall it would tend to fall and rot when moisture got to it. Having a shorter height avoided loss of potential yield. All this is of course an addendum to other comments regarding detection, recording, incidence and increased awareness.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: You have to account for surviorship bias.

The people who actually survived off bread 5000 years ago would not have been allergic to gluten.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Yes it's a thing, but people are making it a fad. Remember low carb? Or sugar free? Each thing well get a momentary rise until they find something else to blame for there weight and not use their own self control.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Celiac Disease is pretty rare still, around 1% incidence in the United States. And non-celiac "gluten intolerance" or "gluten allergies" aren't a thing, so mostly it's just a psychological phenomenon/placebo effect/trendy diet.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Food writer here: Recent studies suggest the changes to wheat that were engineered (by grafting, not GMO processes) in the early 1960s to increase yields changed the basic structure of wheat in ways that have made it harder for many people to digest. This theory has been substantiated somewhat by anecdotal evidence that many people with gluten sensitivities (not celiacs) are able to enjoy and easily digest products made with heirloom wheat--which is unchanged from its original form. Eli Rogosa's "Restoring Heritage Grains" goes into this in detail.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: I have no information about the rise or fall of gluten issues in the population. 

That being said we often forget that just because we didn't have a name for something or understand it fully, doesn't mean it didn't exist. 

Think of all the people you've heard of in history who were "sickly" or died super young for vague reasons. Maybe they couldn't handle gluten or had some other condition we now have a name for.

Those town weirdos... Maybe it was autism or ADD.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Wheat from the west was hybrided with our own in the US, basically forced because it would yield more wheat even though it was basically a failed hybrid. This with pesticides and herbicides and over consumption of it. There is a good documentary on this called whats with wheat I believe, its on netflix.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Some people mix up gouten intolerance with fructose malabsorption. An easy way to find out is to switch from bread with high fructose corn syrup to bread without which is usually more expensive.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: I have a friend that once claimed he was lactose intolerant because he didn't like the taste of milk.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: [Scientists Who Found Gluten Sensitivity Evidence Have Now Shown It Doesn't Exist](_URL_17_)  
    
[Gluten Intolerance May Not Exist](_URL_18_)
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: The reason so many people are *now* having a bad reaction to gluten is due entirely to the food manufacturing business and monoculture farming practices.

Simply put, wheat has been modified from it's long holistic history of human farming, when the grain was ground into wheat and the stalks dried into straw. 

This documentary, ["What's with Wheat"](_URL_19_) on Netflix is pretty explanatory.

The TL;DW is that due to the demands of both monoculture farming practices and the manufactured foods industry, wheat has been modified from it's longtime farmed form in the last 50 years, and now contains much more gluten than previously.

Add to that the practice of using wheat in just about every manufacturing process, from shampoo to heaven knows what, and it's impossible tell how much gluten one actually absorbs based on food labels alone.

Did I mention how heavily subsidized wheat production is? And that it's a commodity being heavily traded in the stock markets? There's more than one influence on the push to create ever-more-modified plants.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: It's worth noting that many people can go with celiac their entire lives and not know. My grandmother was diagnosed in her 70s, only because other family members were testing positive.  She lived a very normal life with not too many health complications. Celiac is more likely to just shave some time off your life due to the damage it causes to the intestines and provide an array of minor inconveniences than kill you outright like say a peanut allergy.  This isn't the case for everybody of course, for some people who have abstained from gluten due to celiac for decades, any gluten at all can be deadly.  

One great thing about the hipster gluten free craze, is more and more people are thinking 'Well maybe I'm allergic' when they have an upset stomach after eating bread, and therefore get tested for celic.  I'd say this helps identify a lot of celiac patients whereas getting tested for celiac twenty years ago wouldn't have even been a thought.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Less than half of a percent of people have some sort of **actual** gluten intolerance. Its not "so many". For the most part, gluten-free is a stupid "health" trend that became popular because it made people lose weight, and they incorrectly attributed it to the lack of gluten, when in reality anything with gluten in it also has carbohydrates, and westerners typically consumer waaaaaaayy too many carbs in the first place.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: What I've heard is that the strains of wheat which are now most commonly grown in my country have triple the gluten that they did a generation or two ago, let alone compared to the wheat we as a species have been accustomed to eating since the dawn of grain consumption. Our digestive systems have not adapted to such an increase in such a short time.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: _URL_20_ 
Watch Cooked on Netflix episode 3 "Air" 
It's more of a doc about food than a cooking show
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Didn't the same people who released the study showing gluten intolerance retract the entirety of it?
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: My wife contracted celiac disease in her mid thirties after having multiple issues in a short period of time.  She had her gall bladder out (gallstones) and appendix out in a short time period after developing an abcess in her digestive tract.  Sort of a perfect storm of digestive issues all at the same time.  Her theory is that the high doses of antibiotics she was on during that time wiped out the good and bad bacteria in her digestive tract in effect doing a reset on her immune system and somehow in doing so making gluten a problem.  Previously she had no problems with gluten.  They had diagnosed her with celiac disease around that time.  That was about six years ago and has been gluten free out of necessity ever since.  She has gotten "glutened" (her word) on occasion that proves this is still a problem but the prevalence of gluten free foods has been a big help to her.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Because we have so many alternatives now.  We also have science and modern medicine.  The reason so many people who are allergic to gluten and peanuts even exist now is because natural selection can no longer weed those traits out.  That goes for a lot of diseases and genetic traits now.  Before medicine those people would just die and not pass on their genes.  Now they survive and the gluten allergies thrive.  There was a Louis CK joke I remember about how when we drop food like peanut butter to starving African or Middle Eastern children we don't hear about them whining about their nut allergies. That's because they:
A: starve
B: eat the peanut butter, have a nut allergy, die for lack of medical care
C: eat the peanut butter and survive

TL;DR natural selection isn't working on humans anymore because science and medicine counter act it
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Obligatory I'm not a doctor, or even knowledgeable in the subject... but...

I've kinda wondered if there actually is an increase. Much like the increase in peanut allergies.  But rather: Is it possible that simply our understanding of the cause of these things has increased thus resulting in many people actually becoming aware of what's causing their reactions / problems?  Edit: Also with social media and a much more connected world, sometimes these small parts of a population can seem to have a much larger voice than what they really do (not saying we shouldn't care though).
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Caveat: I am **NOT** one of the anti-GMO crowd.

That said, I know an intelligent doctor who believes, based on cases he has dealt with over several years, that GMO grains have starches and proteins that are not *quite* what we are adapted to.

And that these are the source of all the new allergies,

Personally, GMO foods have never caused me any problems, but I wonder if he could be onto something.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Bro science here:

Bread is made differently than it was 100s of years ago. Most bread was like traditional sourdough. [Not the sourdough you buy at the supermarket](_URL_22_) that has added vinegar, the traditional stuff is fermented which makes it taste sour-ish.

This type of traditional bread has [lower gluten contents](_URL_23_) and [some celiac patients can eat it without ill effects](_URL_21_).

Broken link located here: _URL_23_
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: "Gluten allergies" are what people call intolerance of things made with wheat, but there are several factors: 

* Modern wheat is covered with loads of pesticides
* Modern commercial bakers use chemical leaveners instead of fermenting breads

If a person can distinguish between them, say can eat pasta but not bread, that person may be allergic to chemical leaveners.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: IMO: we started using quick rise yeast in the early 20th century and stopped making fermented sourdough. The fermentation process actually breaks down most of the gluten.  Probably a mix of this and all the other things listed in this thread. 

Try making real sourdough bread - it's like having a pet... that you eat
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: My guess would be the wide use of antibiotics for starters. Some meds might destroy too much good gut flora but leave a bad bacteria unaffected. C.Diff is a more extreme example of this. It could just be killing off certain bacteria diminishes your ability to properly digest certain foods and enzymes.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: I have two theories. Not everyone who is allergic to gluten isn't actually allergic to it. They might just think they are or they're trying to be cool. Also with the population so large you're going to see a lot more people with those "rare" conditions like 1:10,000 etc.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: The celiac disease cabal has been successful in their bid to have better options when eating out. Their plot to convince health nutters that they are allergic to gluten and so demand non-gluten foods be available took years to pull off, but pull it off they have.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: We don't. A lot of people eat gluten free because it's another healthy sounding option along with the organic food that many shop for. 

More people think they have an allergy or intolerance to gluten than actually do. Way, way more. That inflates the numbers.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Because our farming industry is using round up to dry the entire wheat field out 7-10 days before pulling the crop. It adds additional wheat to the harvest but remains in the food after production. Great idea in motion since the early 90's.
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: Netflix has a show called Cooked where a guy argues that it has to do with the lack of properly fermenting the dough. So theres that. Quick rising yeast and industrialization of bread vs proper slow bread making
question: How after 5000 years of humanity surviving off of bread do we have so many people within the last decade who are entirely allergic to gluten? answer: It could very well be that this is just a case of not knowing what it was until quite recently, since the symptoms can be very different.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Stress mostly. The anticipation of arriving, dealing with airlines, traffic, countless unknown people and disturbances, and the mental effort required to deal with all of that. In my experience mental and emotional stress make me a lot more tired than physical exertion.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Im suprised no one has stated Decision Fatigue yet.

Essentially, on top of all the other nussances of traveling, one the the biggest is the fact that you have to constantly make decisions all the time.

Where is my gate? Do I eat now or later? Which line do I get in? Should my seatbelt be on it off? Do I have enough time to eat this bagel here? Or do I actually want a muffin? Shit that line is long maybe I should go to another stand.

It has been shown that making decisions, no matter how small, is taxing on the mind. You have a limited amount of decisions you can make in a day before they just become harder and harder and harder to make.

This is why managing a group of people can be so exhausting too. Even if you aren't physically doing a ton of work, you're conciously making hundreds of decisions throughout a day and that shit is exhausting.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Staying alert is very taxing on the mind. 'Alert' can mean a whole array of stuff, like the alertness required to stay upright and maintaining your center of gravity, the alertness required to stay wary of when and where you are, as well as being mindful of your surroundings making sure you and your belongings are safe.

So if you're in a situation where most of these conditions are nullified, let's say Travelling with only close family and friends that you trust (no worries about belongings), have a pretty comfortable reclining seat, and you're either in a flight with no turbulence, or on a long road trip on good roads, etc., you'll fall asleep much quicker than you would in say, an economy class flight travelling alone
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Guess you haven't travelled first class or lie-flat business class. It is lack of sleep due to time changes. It is amazing how refreshed you are while you travel first class and use airport lounges for hot showers etc. If you are pampered you are not so tired after all.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Delta million miler here. I have been a business traveler for my entire adult life. The fatigue goes away with repetition for some folks. I am basically Pavlov's flyer: I get on board, chug a bottle of water and fall asleep as soon as they pressurize the plane. I have a few coworkers who are the same way. Eventually, everything about it becomes second nature and you just get in your travel zone. Turbulence? Not awake. Delays? There is always another flight. Airport food? You know your go to's cold. Drama at the security line? That's what Precheck is for.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Along with the mental stresses that others are commenting, I've also read before that your muscles are constantly making micro-adjustments to compensate for all the slight movements of your body that the vibration of the vehicle are causing which will tire you out as well.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Lack of oxygen is one factor.  Your blood is not flowing as well as when you're moving around, so it's not replenishing the energy of your body. 

Lack of movement is a factor all its own.  Motion can create emotion.  If you haven't moved for a long time, your emotional centers will turn down and boredom or frustration will set in. These will drain your energy faster than just sitting by itself.

Driving at night can be hypnotic.  The rhythm of the passing street lights along the highway, or the rhythm of the flashing lane lines can create drowsiness.

Mental exhaustion from driving in uncertain conditions also happens. If you aren't sure where you're going, or think you missed your turn and may have to double back 50 miles, the stress will raise your stress hormones, which will eventually cause a crash in those hormones and subsequent fatigue.

That's my two cents.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Flight attendant here. In addition to what others have said here, I would say that a major factor in the tiredness is the stress you put your body through by traveling at high altitudes. 

Imagine a stress ball. When you apply pressure to it, it gets smaller and more condensed. When you release it, the pressure is relieved and it expands.

At sea level, the human body is at its natural athmospheric pressure. However, at 37,000 feet the air gets considerably thinner, even inside airplanes. Much like with the stress ball, this lowers athmosperic pressure and the expands gases and some liquids in the human body (this is why we fart a lot in airplanes). This is pretty taxing on the body during longer flights.

Also, the air gets very dry. You need to drink A LOT of water during flights.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: If you're talking about driving, I remember reading somewhere that your muscles are making small adjustments as you're going over bumps and stuff in the road. Over a few hours this will wear you out.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: You are disrupting your natural eat/play/sleep cycle. Your body likes routine, especially when it comes to daylight. Your body knows where the sun is when you wake up, eat breakfast, exercise, and get sleepy. When you travel, you are either following the sun along its path, or going against it. Your body gets confused. Then you get sleepy.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: **Explanation**: Cortisol (stress hormone) and melatonin (sleep hormone) balance each other out.

If you've got more cortisol (you're more stressed) you'll have more melatonin (you're more tired).

**TLDR**: You get stressed  when you travel and because you get stressed, you get tired.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: It is stress for sure. My last airport adventure: 

Arrive about 1.5 hours before my flight from LAX because LA traffic was insane. 

Stand in a barely moving line for half an hour while every other person cuts in front because they are more privileged somehow. 

Get patted down and bomb checked because I'm a diabetic, forget something on the conveyor belt because it took the rookies 10 min to figure out how to do the bomb check.  

Get on plane ~30 min before departure.  Realize something (probably laptop that they make you take out for some reason) was left on conveyor.  

SPRINT LIKE ALL HELL back. 

SPRINT BACK TO PLANE.  

Look out window to see plane pulling out 15 min before the intended departure time(WHYYYYYYYYYYYY).

Get put on new flight an hour later for another 100$

Sit in between two fat, smelly, snoring mouth breathers. 

Try to sleep.

 Get woken up every 2 min by pointless DING there's turbulence (OH RLY). 

Get to airport. 

Wait for suitcases.

 Large luggage doesn't come for 30 min. 

Complain to literally 30 different teirs of airport heirarchy before they start looking for bags. 


Finally get bag put in some random locked room. 

Wait 30 min for bus.  

Realize its the wrong bus.  

Wait 30 more min for bus. 

Get back to school. 

Realize it would have been shorter to just drive.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: I am a Molecular Bio and Psych double major and I think the main stem of this issue is more grounded in psychology. 

A lot of the exhaustive feeling comes from your body, usually, being subjected to an atmosphere of relative discomfort. Each person has their own personal threshold for what discomfort is but what is shared is that these discomforts generate stress upon the body. The brain, as a counter, therefore uses up a lot of energy and resources to cope with the added stress of the environment (I would honestly argue though that a wide majority of cases of these issues stems from the lack of sleep when in a not-so-greatly accommodating transport system).

My personal example: I used to ride the train a bunch (AmTrak) which is essentially 4-5 hours of constant rocking back and forth. The first couple of times, I was super tired afterwards because I couldn't sleep and I could just feel my psyche actively trying to block out the annoyance of the rocking and the stress it was causing. It very quickly went away but my point is that, since I was uncomfortable during the trip, it made my psyche work exhaustively to compensate in order to make it to my destination while completely sane.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: I [read here](_URL_0_) That your brain remains half awake when sleeping in a place other than your bed as a defense mechanism. It's all I can think about now when I travel and am tired the whole time.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: The answers here have really covered it, but if you want to learn even more, read about fatigue in aviation crews and crew rest policies. It's been thoroughly studied since at least the 1970s and is a huge factor for airlines and the military.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Ordinarily when you're sitting still and not really thinking, your body thinks you're getting ready to go to sleep, so it starts prepping yourself to sleep, making you feel tired. You'd feel tired if you were to just sit in a chair and watch a video of someone driving for a few hours, too.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: On top of the things others have mentioned, I also think that the passive act of overloading your eyes and ears with the sounds of busy airports/stations, and the sights of new places (even if just some random place seen in a train's window), will make your brain consume more energy than usual. I don't mean the "stress" of it, as in anxiety, but the fact that your brain will record lots more information, even if only in short term memory. That has to have a cost at the neural level. Whereas when you go to work like every other day, every place you see if something you have seen before, and does not require to form as many new memories.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: I was in the car yesterday from 7am until 1am. I'm not ready to be around people today. I'm wiped out. I know what solitary confinement is like, and it's not fun lol. Weird shit starts happening around the 12 hour mark.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: When it comes to air travel, the constant noise caused by wind and engines has a really tiring effect, since the brain needs to filter out the noise to pick up all the other sounds that we want to hear. I guess this would also apply to train and road travel.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Novelty. Everything is new to your brain and it gets aroused which its fun in the beginning but then you do get tired. Also probably the planning too. Unless youre a free bird and just get up and go. :)
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: There is a growing contingent of scientists who believe that fatigue is a mental process that we merely confuse for a physical one. Considering how many chemicals can make us feel artificially alert without energizing our bodies in any way, I'm inclined to agree. Why? Because it implies that our minds aren't reading the body's state directly, instead being informed of such by one to enzyme or another.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: I find sitting still makes me more tired than being active. I'm a server now so I spend most of my day on my feet running back and forth carrying shit and reaching for stuff. When I get off work I feel fine and ready to do other stuff. However, on my days off just sitting in chair watching Netflix, I feel tired and drowsy all day.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Many factors contribute to fatigue while traveling.  

For one, being on a plane is surprisingly loud.  Which makes for a tough environment to sleep in.

Along with the noise, you are sitting in a low pressure environment which is also very dry.  This leads to quick dehydration, of which a symptom is fatigue.

Couple that with time-zone changes, it makes for being quite tired upon arrival.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Noise is a big factor, I believe. Try noise cancelling headphones or earplugs the next time.

Vibration probably also contributes a lot, but there's not much you can do against that.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Because you think you are relaxed and do things that are similar to relaxing (sitting, "sleeping",etc) but you aren't relaxed. 

Think of it like this johnny, if you are a little bit hungry and then mommy starts cooking cookies and you smell them. You suddenly become much more hungry. 

While on a plane/travelling, you are normally stressed which lends to tiredness and then you prevent to relax by "sleeping" on a plane which makes you realize you actually are tired. 


I put sleeping in quotes here because you are noramlly very uncomfortable but can still force yourself to sleep due to closing your eyes and boredom but your body likely doesn't REM at all or your sleep cycle if screwed up so you go unconscious but your body doesn't go through the relaxing/recovery process that normally occur when sleeping.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: There are a number of factors, but the amount of oxygen you are getting even on a pressurized plane is not the same as what you get at sea level.  While the plane is up at 35,000' plus, the pressure system is making it seem like you're at a much lower altitude (7000-8000').  So even though the air is breathable it's not what most of us are used to.  Newer technologies (stronger, lighter materials) allow for increased pressure in the cabin making the air more similar to sea level air.  Also, it's very difficult to achieve REM sleep (the most restorative kind) on a plane which usually takes about 90 minutes of uninnteruption.  Neighbors, crampt spaces, drink services, etc. all make this nearly impossible.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Nobody seems to be saying how physical activity actually rejuvenates people. If you go for a run in the morning, you'll feel like you have more energy during the day. Same as if you do nothing all day, by the end of it you feel more lazy and tired.. You don't suddenly feel like you need to burn off all the energy that's built up.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Depends on how you are traveling, but on long car rides the battering of my body by being shaken around or rumbling over asphalt leaves me sore and tired at the end of the trip.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Sure you are sitting still, but you aren't in your own bed. You're not in an environment that makes you comfortable, like your own house. You're out of your routine.
question: Why do we get so tired from travelling, when most of the time is spent sitting still?[removed] answer: Most of these times I am actually the one that is driving, so it's just not sitting still, it's actually work I am doing.
question: Wind answer: Hot air goes up and cold air goes down and usually this involves pushing a lot of average air out of the way.  

Edit: The up-votes on this comment put me over 10K, thanks!
question: Wind answer: Air travels from high pressure to low pressure, thus causes the wind we feel.
question: Wind answer: Basically, the sun heats the earth unevenly due to proximity to the equator, oceans, clouds, moisture in the air, etc. When air is heated up, it rises. So, when the warm patch of air rises higher into the atmosphere, it means there is less air where it left from. This is called Low Pressure. Now air that was around this (and wasn't heated as well) now rushes in to try and fill the "hole" left behind. Meanwhile, the original "parcel" of air rises up higher into the atmosphere until there is so much of it that it causes an area of High Pressure. The air then spreads out and starts to cool off (air doesn't heat very well at that height). After it cools off, it starts to sink back down leaving a Low Pressure area behind. Once it returns to earth, it again forms a High Pressure area and spreads out looking for more Low Pressure spots to fill in.
question: Wind answer: When you take a spoonful of tomato soup out of the bowl, it doesn't leave a spoon shaped hole in your soup, the soup around the spot where you dipped the spoon will fill in the gap and level out. The soup that moves to fill in that spot is like wind, only the bowl is our planet and it never really levels out so the wind is constantly moving to "fill the gap".
question: Wind answer: as short as possible, wind is caused by pressure changes in the air, pressure is different due to unequal heating of the area.
question: Wind answer: ok all of these comments are telling half the story. 

Wind has many causes, all of which really involve a change in air pressure.

Air pressure at ground level is about 14psi (~930mb), but as you go higher the pressure is less (less air pushing down on you, if it's easier to think of it that way). 

Also, there is boyle's law, which in this case just think that the hotter something gets, the higher the pressure. 

But here's the interesting thing: COLD air is considered HIGH pressure and HOT air is LOW pressure. Why? Because hot air rises. Why? Because it's less dense (think about the tiny air molecules whizzing by faster and expanding, giving them more breathing room).

The hot air rises. Ever see how when you lift the top off a boiling pot that when the steam rises, the steam on the bottom seems to "suck" up ? That's the cooler air rushing in to take up the space the hotter air is leaving behind.

So think of this on a larger scale, I mean a massive scale. When warm air rises, it creates a draft because the pressure lowers. When cold air drops, it not only pushes things out of the way, but also when it drops it gets squeezed under its own weight.

All this is ok, but let's see it with picture help. Think of weather fronts. You have warm fronts and cold fronts. These are the edges of the "air masses" (think of big bubbles) that are sent up or down through convection and the coriolis effect (another topic don't worry about this as much right now).

convection is just as hot air rises, it cools, and sinks, and vice versa.

When a warm front encounters a cold front, [it rises over the cold air mass](_URL_2_). As it does this it begins to cool and condense forming drops of water (rain). That's why warm fronts often bring steady rain.

cold fronts are a lot more pushy. [They come in and dig under the warm air mass](_URL_1_). This changes the pressure and causes wind (notice how cold fronts come in with wind- and in the spring when the temp differential between warm/cold fronts are the most you get some very windy days). The cold front shoves the warm front up and it cools very, very fast. It will condense and fall (remember convection), hit the ground and mushroom out as a gust front (all of this forms a thunderstorm).

[Here you can even see the distinctive shape with each frontal storm](_URL_3_). If you ever look at a frontal thunderstorm you can see a very specific shape to it.


Those are with air masses.


you also get a [sea breeze](_URL_5_), this is when the sea and land heat up at different speeds.


Gust fronts from thunderstorms are caused by [rapidly sinking air mushrooming out when it hits the ground](_URL_0_) and they create [really cool and scary looking shelf clouds](_URL_4_) that people somehow confuse with tornadoes.
question: Wind answer: I just did my student teaching in 6th grade earth science and I feel the need to chime in: 

The definition of wind is "moving air." When air moves, we can feel it!  So, when you ask, "what causes wind?" you are really asking, "what causes air to move around?"  That's a great question, Five Year Old.  The answer is a little complicated, but I think you can understand it.  You rock.  

Global winds (winds that move REALLY long distances across the whole earth and always go in the same direction) are caused because the sun heats up the earth differently depending on where you live.  You know where Santa lives at the North Pole?  And do you know where the penguins live in Antartica?  It's FREEZING in those places!  But, what about the equator, where there are lots of jungles and rain forests?  It's HOT, right?  There are awesome big science words that you'll learn in 6th grade, like pressure and density, that explain this better, but the important thing to remember is that cold air likes to push warm air out of the way.  And what happens when air is pushing and moving around?  Wind!  

There are also local winds- winds that only move a short distance and they can go in ANY direction.  Exciting, right!?  These winds are mostly caused because the sun heats up land and water in different ways.  That's kind of weird, but think about it!  When you go to the beach or a pool on a hot day- which is hotter: the ground or the water?  That's right, the ground!  But as soon as the sun goes down, the ground will be cooler and the water will be hotter.  Land heats up faster and cools down faster than water- and guess what!  This causes the air above it to heat and cool as well, making 'air masses'.  That's a fancy word for a big blob of air with the same temperature and amount of water hanging out in it.  And what do you think will happen if two air masses, one hotter and one colder, are next to each other?  They're going to move around!  That mean cold air will try to push around the warm air.  And what do we call moving air?  Wind!  This happens all around the world, all the time, causing weather and moving it around- and I think that's pretty darn cool.
question: Wind answer: Basically you have high pressure and low pressure air. High pressure would be like a scuba tank full of compressed air and low pressure is like the air around us. When you open the valve and let the high pressure do what it wants it will run off to the atmospheric air. If you put your hand in front of this you will feel wind. 

Same thing happens with the wind we feel. You have high pressure systems (dense, compressed air if you'd like) and low pressure air. The air will want to go from high pressure to low pressure so it will flow towards it. 

One other thing a few people left out is a term called "Coriolis Effect" due to some things that are a little more advanced that a five year old can handle regarding the earth's rotation you end up having the air rotate perpendicular to the actual low pressure as it flows towards it. 

A fun thing to do in the Northern Hemisphere is to put your back into the wind. You will find that the low pressure is abeam you on your left side. 

Edit to add: The grater the pressure gradient (the amount of distance it takes to go from one pressure level to another) corresponds with how windy it is. For example if you have two pressure systems very closely packed together or with a very big difference of pressure you will have more wind (think scuba tank) if you do not have a steep pressure gradient, the winds will be lighter.
question: Wind answer: My extremely stupid ex-wife once told me that wind was caused by trees swaying. She was in her early 20's at the time. And yes, she was serious. I guess if she was 5 I would have not laughed.

That probably doesn't help you much, but I was aching to tell someone. Wind is actually caused by the sun heating up the top layer of the ocean and the ground, which causes hot air to rise, which therefore pushes the other air out of its way, causing wind. It gets more technical than that, but that's the 5 year olds explanation.
question: Wind answer: I hate wind, and whoever invented it. This does not answer the question however.


 The answer would be that wind is the movement of air caused by both differences in pressure and temperature. Everything moves from high to low. Air flows from high pressure to low pressure, this and the effect of hot air rising and cool air sinking cause the effect known as wind
question: Wind answer: Sun heats the earth's surface at different temperatures(water vs land at varying altitudes)-- > creates places where molecules are moving faster than others due to difference in temperature-- > this creates places with higher or lower pressure than others depending on temperature-- > wind moves from high pressure areas to low pressure areas, ala wind.
question: Wind answer: Although not scientific nor a real answer, given the name of this subreddit, this question reminds me of a wonderful animated movie that I watch when I was younger: My Neighbor Totoro. The wind in the movie was created by a giant cat that was also a bus :)
question: Wind answer: When I was younger, I thought wind was a result of the earth spinning so fast. Like when you stick your head out of a car window on the highway.
question: How does New Horizons avoid space debris for 9 years and three billion miles?Considering a tiny rock could devastate the spacecraft, is there a way NASA can mitigate the risk of impact or is it just a cross your fingers situation?  answer: Space is incredibly empty.  I mean **incredibly** empty.  As in, "so empty that the human mind cannot  intuitively comprehend how empty it is".  

You have to **try** to hit things in space.  If you just pick a direction and go, you'll almost certainly be able to leave the galaxy entirely without encountering anything more dense than a few molecules of gas.

I think part of the blame for this misconception lies in how things like the asteroid belt are portrayed in popular media.  We always see this giant conglomeration of rubble and boulders careening around and colliding with each other (or the poor spacecraft tasked with navigating through it).  But in reality, if you were placed on a random asteroid in the asteroid belt, you'd need a telescope to be able to see even its nearest neighbors.
question: How does New Horizons avoid space debris for 9 years and three billion miles?Considering a tiny rock could devastate the spacecraft, is there a way NASA can mitigate the risk of impact or is it just a cross your fingers situation?  answer: A tiny rock can also block light.  If you hold one in front of a star, you won't be able to see the star.  Even a grain of sand can block light.

But the photons from the star still made it to earth and to your eye.  In all the trillions and trillions of miles between you and the star, they never ran into even a grain of sand in the way.

*That's* how empty space is.
question: How does New Horizons avoid space debris for 9 years and three billion miles?Considering a tiny rock could devastate the spacecraft, is there a way NASA can mitigate the risk of impact or is it just a cross your fingers situation?  answer: Our solar system is basically made of a bunch of really old vacuum cleaners. I mean REALLY old. And we call them planets and moons.

Over about 5,000,000,000 years, they've been flying around in circles sucking up everything they could find.

They're really really good at getting rid of stuff floating around out there.

Imagine if your grandma and about 250 of her friends had been vacuuming the living room floor constantly for 5 billion years.

It'd be pretty clean.

If you go skipping across that floor, the odds of you getting even a spec of dust on your feet is as crazy low as anything you can imagine. Even lower than my chances of ever dating Scarlett Johansson.

THAT low.

tl;dr There's really nothing out there **to** hit the New Horizon.
question: How does New Horizons avoid space debris for 9 years and three billion miles?Considering a tiny rock could devastate the spacecraft, is there a way NASA can mitigate the risk of impact or is it just a cross your fingers situation?  answer: Space is very very big and very very empty. The chances of tiny little new horizons hitting something out in inter-planetary space is pretty damn small.
question: How does New Horizons avoid space debris for 9 years and three billion miles?Considering a tiny rock could devastate the spacecraft, is there a way NASA can mitigate the risk of impact or is it just a cross your fingers situation?  answer: Don't think of space as Han Solo flying through an asteroid field. Hell, even asteroid fields aren't like that.

Space is incredibly empty. Pretty much the only way that you're going to hit something in space is if you're *trying* to hit it.
question: How does New Horizons avoid space debris for 9 years and three billion miles?Considering a tiny rock could devastate the spacecraft, is there a way NASA can mitigate the risk of impact or is it just a cross your fingers situation?  answer: Unless you're in a cluttered Earth orbit, you're more likely to be alone for eons than to hit anything.
question: What is the difference between 'the cloud' and traditional web servers?Is the cloud just basically a server? I'm under the impression that the term 'the cloud' is just used as a marketing scheme/selling point to reel in uninformed customers and charge them a higher price. answer: The 'cloud' is a marketing term. Nothing more. (And not even a good one in my opinion. How the hell is it cloud like?)

There have been advances in what can be offered on remote systems, like Amazon's AWS that lets you make virtual machines, subnets, databases and all sorts of crap that scale and all that nice stuff, but essentially yeah, it's still just a remote system doing something at your behest.

Probably the marketing teams behind it figured it'd be easier to just pretend it's some new computer magic rather than explain it's just a new service that lets you do new things over the network that traditionally you wouldn't or could not.
question: What is the difference between 'the cloud' and traditional web servers?Is the cloud just basically a server? I'm under the impression that the term 'the cloud' is just used as a marketing scheme/selling point to reel in uninformed customers and charge them a higher price. answer: Unfortunately, cloud has become such a buzzword that everyone wants to call their hosted services "cloud".  

The best model for cloud services is electricity.  Everyone could have a generator in their garage, fill it up with diesel fuel every other day, and get your power that way.  Or you could treat it like a service, something that is there when you need it, and you don't have to worry about the details, you just pay the bill.

True cloud computing is like that, treating computational power as a service.  Key components are:

* virtualized servers, agnostic to physical location
* instant on demand availability
* pay as you go, turn off when it isn't needed

 >  I'm under the impression that the term 'the cloud' is just used as a marketing scheme/selling point to reel in uninformed customers and charge them a higher price.

It is less about a higher price and more about getting new business.  Host services have be around for years, and everyone is familiar with their pros and cons, and many people have good reasons not to use them.  But if I can rebrand my hosted service into a new technological breakthrough with a buzzword compliant name, I can resell to those people.

[The Onion](_URL_0_) puts this best.
question: What is the difference between 'the cloud' and traditional web servers?Is the cloud just basically a server? I'm under the impression that the term 'the cloud' is just used as a marketing scheme/selling point to reel in uninformed customers and charge them a higher price. answer: It's a marketing term but has little/nothing to do with charging a higher price.  Traditional servers only store the information they are going to need to display to others who make a request.  A web server would contain only web content for example.

The cloud is a server, or group of servers, who are doing something that traditionally would have been done by the local computer or network.  So for example, a data backup system that uses the internet to store the data would be a cloud based solution.  Wheres a more traditional approach would be to have a server in a closet some ware that does the nightly backup.

Saying "the cloud" is just a catch all term that means the computers performing the work are off site, and accessible via the internet.  Often (but not always) is refers to work that is being subcontracted. 

So, while it IS a marketing term it's not just to "charge more money" but rather to be clear with your customers how your product is different than the old way. 

As with all marketing terms it suffers the problem of having no hard definition.  Therefore, over time, it loses value as a descriptive term, that's about where we are right now.
question: What is the difference between 'the cloud' and traditional web servers?Is the cloud just basically a server? I'm under the impression that the term 'the cloud' is just used as a marketing scheme/selling point to reel in uninformed customers and charge them a higher price. answer: Short answer, it's a server, but not necessarily a web server.  They usually have web server front-ends as the mechanism for storing/reading your data (otherwise they'd have a client which is using something not part of the http protocol).
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Because its not an expiration date. Its a 'best before' or 'best by' date. Things like jelly and pure maple syrup and honey don't expire. But they reach ages where they are no longer as fresh as the day it was bought. They might separate, or crystalize, but it does not become a hazard to eat.

[YSK the difference between expiration dates, best by dates, and sell by dates, and what they all mean.](_URL_0_)
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Jelly will last quite a while on a dark shelf unopened. Historically making jelly involved boiling the container as the final step effectively sterilizing the contents. Opening the container allows stuff to get in and grow which would pretty quickly spoil the jelly. Refrigeration slows the rate at which stuff grows so it prolongs the life time once it's open.

Back in the day you'd make 52 bottles of jelly, open 1 a week and use it in a few days. Bachelor life has taught me jelly will still last a few days unrefrigerated.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: An expiration date is *the last date on which all of the products claims can be made*.

Take that a step further and "claims" can be divided unto government regulations (ie safety) and company regulations (ie quality/company image). So the last day a company can guarantee a product to be safe to eat OR taste as good as they would prefer it to taste.. that's their expiration date.

Source: I work in mfg ops
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: 1. Expiration dates are often not an accurate indicator of the actual shelf life of a product.

2. In the age before refrigeration, a foodstuff that could last for several months WAS a long period of time. Preserves like jelly or jam often only had to last until the next harvest.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Forgot this was American for a minute. You mean jam. Suddenly makes much more sense. I was thinking of jelly (what the colonials refer to as jello)  and was wondering how the hell they had that hundreds of years ago.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: The expiration date typically assumes you're going to go home and open the jelly immediately. If you keep the jar sealed, it will last unrefrigerated for one to two years. Once you open the jar, the jelly is no longer in a sterile environment and will spoil within a couple of months.

These times largely depend on the sugar content. Higher sugar contents will last longer. Many modern jellies use sugar substitutes (or simply have less sugar content) that reduce their shelf life, whereas "historical" methods relied on the fruit's natural sugars and added sugar.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: The FDA does not actually require expiration dates on any food other than infant and baby food. There are not legally set time limits or definitions for food-use dates. 

Many products use "best by" dates on their products. These do not refer to food safety, they refer to when the product will taste best...according to the seller of the product. It's likely the date on your jelly jar is a best by date.

Regarding refrigeration, canning foods like jellies preserves them by destroying the bacteria within them and sealing them to prevent exposure. You don't have to refrigerate  jellies until they are opened. Once you open the can, you immediately expose the food to bacteria/mold and begin a new, shorter shelf life.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Simple.

- I'm a company and every single thing that I do, I do for profit.
- I'm legally forced to tag my food product with an expiration date. 
- I make the smallest possible financial effort to determine and legally certify the interval during which my product is safe to eat.
- This ensures I obtain the smallest interval, which is not only great because I spent fewest resources to certify but also because the customer will throw away the product and buy another unit. 
- Tadaaaaaa! Mo' money!
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Unopened jars of jam can last years.  Opened jars are probably safe for months if refrigerated but probably only days if not.  Commercially produced jams may contain preservatives which should make things last longer but really the important thing is the whether the jar has been opened.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: I think it's worth mentioning that most of the printed 'sell by' or 'best by' dates are made up by the producer. Very few food products, like baby-formula, have regulated dates, and in most cases it's just a producers best guess. 
Here's a good [clip](_URL_1_) of John Oliver explaining some of this.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: The term "Expiration date" is misleading.

Mostly it describes the minimum amount of time the product's characteristics stay the way they're supposed to.

With honey or jelly this includes color and viscosity etc...

Honey gets crystally with time, but it won't get bad.

Same with jelly, it might lose some color due exposure to daylight, but it doesn't get bad.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Couple of years ago I ate homemade canned raspberry jelly from 1993. Couldn't tell any difference.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Because they have so much less sugar. There's a big difference between traditional jelly  or preserves and modern preserves. Traditional preserves have a LOT of sugar in them, so much that most of the time it is a bit difficult to tell just by taste which fruit the jelly is made from. The reason for all that sugar is because it is a preservative. You could never seal the jelly and it would stay good for a couple years. This is why lots of European preserves recipes don't require a boiling water bath to seal. Or they just say put a piece of waxes paper on top and store it in the pantry.

Nowadays American preserves have way less sugar in them because people want to taste the fruit. They can acidify the preserve to make it more hostile to mold and say it has to be refrigerated, but once it's opened, it will still get moldy.

I know this because I make preserves from both old-fashioned European recipes that don't require sealing or refrigeration and from modern American recipes that require both.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: We've had noses and tongues long before people had (marketing) degrees to tell us how long something is good for (pro tip, it's to make them money, not keep us safe)

Look, sniff, taste. **With the exception of meat** you'll never go wrong.

Dairy doesn't matter, it'll smell and taste funny long before it'll harm you.

Use the Captain Barbossa approach to use by dates

"they're more like guidelines, anyway"
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Hell... I've had jars in my fridge last a year, easy.

Preservatives are your friend. Don't let anyone tell you any different.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Contamination, I would think. Ever noticed how many toast crumbs make it into a jar of jelly?
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Idt all jellies are made equal. IIRC, the reason things like jelly and honey don't expire is that they are too viscous/don't have enough water as a substrate to support microbial motility, nutrition, and osmotic equilibrium.

From reading this thread, I also learned that in addition to the physical properties of jellies, the method of storing and creating them also kills most microbes to give it a clean start, so if it's unopened and sealed well, it's probably not growing anything. 

That said, this is speculation, but I think if you buy some random Jelly from the store, it's probably not boiled down fruit nectar, there's probably a bit of added water and other salutes that hold water and foster an environment for microbial growth. It's still a fairly shitty environment for microbial growth, but I'm guessing if you leave the wrong kind of jelly out for long enough, stuff can eventually grow in it. 

I'm also going to assume that with fruit jellies, some of the organic components that give it it's flavor can oxidize and undergo chemical changes that make them taste different after exposure to air.

Tl;dr: I'm not a food scientist, but I think some jellies last longer than others because they're thicker and have less other shit in them. I know nothing about honey.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: The reason for this is, that commercial Jelly's/Jams are made with a lot less sugar than they used to. Old style jams didn't need to be refrigerated after opening, as long as you used a clean spoon to take it out (breadcrumbs and butter are not good additions), but rules have changed and the sugar content is now so reduced, that you need to store it in the fridge after opening. Sugar is a very effective preservative, in large enough amounts. Lower amounts are bug food. Quite magic actually. One bug can survive in honey and other preserves though and that's botulism.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: A lot of these answers are about expiration dates. That's only a small part of the story.

In the old days, like the 1800s, jams and jellies were made differently, with a LOT more sugar. High sugar concentrations are good preservatives.

It's not just sweet things either, pickled goods also use a lot less salt and/or vinegar.
question: If jelly was historically preserved for long periods of time and modern food preservation has improved, why do jellies have expiration dates within months of purchase and why do they have to be refrigerated? answer: Nobody is forcing you to refrigerate it. Be a leader, start the trend of unrefrigerated jelly.
question: If bullpen pitchers are so good (compared to starters, it seems), why do they see relatively little playing time?I think it makes more sense that you would play your best pitchers more than your less-skilled ones, but I'm not too knowledgeable about baseball. answer: Starting and relieving (and closing) are different kinds of tasks.  Starters play for a long time and have to face the same batters several times.  As hitters get used to the pitcher (and watch their teammates at bat), they'll start hitting better.  Combined with the pitcher getting tired, at some point they won't be effective any more.

Then relievers come in and usually don't pitch long enough to see the same batter twice, and also know they won't be in the game for long so they can go all-out all the time instead of having to pace themselves.  These factors combined can make it look like a reliever is way better than the starters, but these relievers would mostly not be too good if put in the same kind of situation as a starter.

The extreme example is the closer, who just comes in when the team has the lead to get the last 3 outs.  Nobody's used to trying to hit him, and he can just burn fastballs because he only has to throw a few.  For as dominant as Mariano Rivera was, if you tried to have him pitch 3 innings he wouldn't have done well.
question: If bullpen pitchers are so good (compared to starters, it seems), why do they see relatively little playing time?I think it makes more sense that you would play your best pitchers more than your less-skilled ones, but I'm not too knowledgeable about baseball. answer: You also have to remember that the last 6 outs are extremely hard outs to get. Especially in a World Series game. That is why bullpen importance is trending higher than it ever has in the history of the game. Your starting to see some of your better pitchers come out of the bullpen nowadays and the really great ones sometimes will make the transition to a starter. The numbers for bullpen pitchers are skewed bc one inning of severe damage could jack your E.R.A. up. But you don't make it to the World Series or the postseason for that matter without a great bullpen.
question: If bullpen pitchers are so good (compared to starters, it seems), why do they see relatively little playing time?I think it makes more sense that you would play your best pitchers more than your less-skilled ones, but I'm not too knowledgeable about baseball. answer: They are not better, they are different.  The same way a sprinter is not "better" than a marathon runner.  They train differently to do different things to accomplish different purposes.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Ivory is expensive, but not that expensive. The amount of time and money it would take to raise an elephant for a few pounds of ivory wouldn't be a good investment.

It's much more cost effective (albeit cruel) to let mother nature do the first part and just take the ivory after
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: why don't we breed humans to spend their lives in an office instead of poaching free-range humans?
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: It would be so difficult and expensive that the cost of the ivory would be astronomical. And then people would *still* poach the elephants for cheaper ivory, which is essentially free.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: It is very difficult to breed and raise elephants.  So much so that there are no domestic breeds existing, despite human use of elephants for millennia.  Elephants used as work animals have always been obtained by capturing wild animals and taming them.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Serious question...what do we use ivory for? Is it even needed for anything?
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: It would be better to flood the market with imitation ivory.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: i apologize if this is a stupid question.... but does it hurt them when the ivory is cut? or is it like cutting our finger nails is for us?
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Elephants are actually very hard to breed in captivity. Females tend to ovulate irregularly or not at all, and males tend to get very aggressive and destructive. [source](_URL_0_)
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Because no matter how many elephants are bred, poachers will still target the wild ones over the bred ones, since they don't have to pay the breeder for "harvesting rights", or to acquire a permit, when they poach wild animals.

Take diamonds, for example. We have the technology to create [artificial diamonds](_URL_2_) that are even more perfect than any naturally-occurring diamond, yet [blood diamonds](_URL_2_) are still a thing.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Purely speculation here so disregard at will, but farm-fresh ivory would be indistinguishable from poached ivory. On top of the aforementioned cost of raising an elephant to maturity, add to that the inconvenience of attempting to regulate the trade and verify sources. Path of least resistance and all that. If we made it legal to trade in ivory, but incredibly difficult to do it the right way, that opens the market way up to poached ivory. As it is now, all ivory trade is illegal; much simpler that way.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Not to forget that it is not about just "ivory" itself...but more about the fact to possess something that is illegal and sketchy. Or the mere story itself:
"This is an ivory  < something >  that is made from the elephant that I shoot on a safari in 2004."
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: People are free to do this already and/or make ivory substitutes or make it in a lab. It's cheaper to kill wild ones. It wouldn't be profitable to breed them
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: The gestation period for an elephant is a couple years I believe.  It would take way too long
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Cost to breed an elephant and also the time for maturity and birth
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: The amount of money it would take to raise an elephant for ivory would determine the market price (along with demand of course).  That would be expensive and it would still make sense for a poacher to go and kill a wild elephant to get the ivory, rather than paying the price to raise the elephant.

If you could raise _so much_ that it flooded the market with ivory such that it became devalued, then...that might work.  But...that's a shit-ton of elephants and that would be very expensive!  You'd also have to factor in the cost of protecting yourself legally from those who would not be OK with raising a majestic elephant for the sole purpose of taking its ivory.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: So, everybody on here is saying that it would just be too expensive compared to the payback from selling the ivory. But what about the payback from the rest of the animal? We could sell the meat (who wouldn't want a nice, big elephant steak?). We could sell the skin (elephant leather purse anyone?). We could sell the bones (the glue that never forgets.... to stick... yeah). We could sell the safari/zoo/circus experience while the animals are alive. I guess we could sell the milk (though I personally probably wouldn't try it)

The point is, there's more to be made there than simply selling the tusks.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: I remember a documentary a while back with Tom Hardy, called 'Poaching Wars' or something. I'm pretty sure there was a guy that bred rhinos for the purpose of discouraging illegal poaching, so perhaps it would be possible to do the same for elephants. I also fail to understand the comments on here discussing the financial credibility of breeding elephants. Surely the priority here is saving these fantastic beasts from gruesome, premature deaths and possible extinction, regardless of the costs. It would be a charitable programme, not a business.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Evil, "I don't give a shit about animals answer" is that you could never make a profit. The amount of food and care required to grow up an elephant is not worth the money you could gain by harvesting is horns. Basically unless we start eating elephants or using their skin and paying a LOT for it there just isn't enough potential money in it to bother investing in raising them in a farm.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Even if this was economically viable, poachers would still poach elephants. This would actually make poaching more lucrative because it would be easier to mix poached ivory in with legal ivory. If we instead made the sale of ivory illegal across the board (right now you can still buy and sell ivory acquired before 1980 and various other exceptions) it would be more difficult for poachers to sell their ivory.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Technically, we could just grow the stuff in a lab. But the price of ivory comes from it's scarcity and difficulty to obtain (especially if it's illegal to do so) - rich people won't pay for lab grown or farmed ivory. Rich people are the problem.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Genetically engineered white tail deer to have ivory antlers. They are killed for sport, are in over supply across much of th Midwest US, and already grow bony antlers. Just need a different DNA sequence. Either that, or giant beavers. But probably the deer.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: As far as I am concerned they should have the same rights as humans.  They certainly exhibit more than enough social and conscious behavior to warrant it.  And in that vein it would be as sick as growing people for spare organs.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: the rarity, struggle, and the nature of what is done to them is part of the medicine's "power". By farming it, nobody would want it

it's more fucked up than you know, dude.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Elephants are hard to domesticate and it takes a cow almost 2 years to have a baby
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Elephant care is more expensive than the ivory. Poachers don't need to care for the elephants.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: Because elephants are LIVING BEINGS just like humans.
question: Why don't we breed elephants for their ivory to prevent the poaching of wild elephants? answer: What if we bred cows to have tusks?
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: You'd had a response from a US perspective, so I'll give you the UK answer.

Here, as in the US, it still comes down to being innocent until proven guilty - therefore, if you're awaiting trial you should remain free.

However, we will put restrictions on someone on bail - we won't insist on money like in the US, but the court might insist that they report to the police daily/weekly/whatever, remain at a certain address or perhaps surrender their passport.

That said, if someone has been charged with a particularly serious crime, or the court believe there's a high likelihood of reoffending, then bail will be denied.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: You're innocent until proven guilty in the US, and your actual court day won't usually be for awhile after you're arrested.

It's both not fair and unrealistic to keep people in jail for months before thier trial.

There are exceptions for particularly violent offenders and flight risks.  Electronic monitoring (ankle bracelets) is also an option.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Someone says you've done something bad, so you are arrested and you go before a judge that will decide whether or not to take them seriously -- not to decide if you did something bad, just to decide if it's possible.

The judge says "OK, maybe you did something bad, but it's going to take a lot of time to get everyone together to figure this out." Then, "You're innocent until someone proves otherwise, so it wouldn't be fair to punish you before you've gone to court; is there anyone here that has a problem with me letting this person go home until their trial comes?"

At that point, the prosecutor says something like: "well, this guy has already been in prison for murder before" or "let me show you the video of him eating the victim" and the judge will respond "wow, that's super serious - you can't go home because I think you might be dangerous; bail refused".

Or, the prosecutor will say something like: "Well, this is a very serious thing and what if they run away?" and the judge might say, "I see that, but this person's never had problems before; I'll tell you what, how about we agree that they set aside some money in an account; if they don't come back to court when they're supposed to they lose the money and you can use it to pay someone to go get them - in exchange, we let them carry on with their lives until the trial" at which point the judge will consult a table and lookup some customary figure for bail.

Lastly the judge can just say, "well, this is just stupid, this person's a well known member of the community, the crime isn't particularly violent and the situation doesn't seem to indicate that they'd do something like that again, even if they did do it, so the person can go without bail as long as they promise to come back later".
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Like other people have stated, bail is only for a defendants awaiting trial and is offered on a case by case basis. A judge can choose to offer no bail and hold a defendant until trial or even "ROR" a defendant (release own recognizance) where no bail is set but the defendant is released.  

 Bail is determined by Posted Bail Schedules which are predetermined  amounts for specific crimes that vary from one jurisdiction to the next. After that, what's taken into account is the severity of the crime, ties to the community, criminal record, outstanding warrants, probability of making court dates, flight risk, and risk to public safety. 
  
Bail can also be set with equity not just cash. Its actually an agreement with the court and/or prosecutor that you will return for your court date or trial. Allowing defendants to post bail helps keep jails from being completely overcrowded. Low risk, first time offenders, and white collar criminals are spared the risks of being in jail or prison. The biggest advantage is that saves taxpayers tons of money (65k/year per inmate is average cost to taxpayers).
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Because they haven't been convicted.  They could just as well be innocent, but as they sit in jail, their livelihood is being ruined since they can't go to work or take care of their families.  Further, it's difficult to collect evidence in your defense from a jail cell.  Bail is a compromise between ensuring safety and justice are served and ensuring that innocent people aren't unnecessarily affected by the judicial process.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: In theory they won't allow someone out on bail if there is a good enough probability that they may harm someone.

Bail originally is just to ensure that the person shows up for their trial. You can either keep them locked up in jail until it is time for their trial or you can give them a good enough reason to come back when it is time by making them deposit a large sum of money.

The idea is not to pay to get out of jail, because if you appear for your trial you get the money back. The money is held hostage to keep you from fleeing.

If there is a big enough chance that the person is guilty and/or a danger to others he won't be allowed out on bail.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: The actual purpose of bail is to ensure that someone appears in court. It has nothing to do with how dangerous they are (Stack v Boyle). If prosecutors think someone is so dangerous that they should not be released before trial, there is a separate process, with a separate hearing, with a separate standard. This is called pretrial detention (U.S. v Salerno). Instead of demonstrating probable cause that the defendant committed the crime, they have to show,  by clear and convincing evidence (think 40 percent certainty vs 65), that the defendant is a danger to society or that no amount of money can assure they show up in court.


TLDR: That's not what bond is for. There is a separate process for that.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: (Former criminal defense attorney here.)

Bail (as used in the the United States) serves several purposes. When a court grants bail, it essentially makes the defendant promise to come back to court so the criminal justice process can proceed properly. To ensure that the defendant lives up to that promise, the court may require payment (in the form of money or property), require the defendant to report to a court officer or comply with other limitations or restrictions, or both. Defendants on bail who fail to return as promised risk losing the bail money they've paid, as well as risk being kept in jail until their case is over.

There are several reasons why courts allow bail. First, it allows those charged with crimes to continue to live their lives (work, raise a family, etc.) while they are awaiting the outcome of their case. Otherwise defendants would have to remain in jail until the cases against them are concluded, which could take months or even years. This would mean keeping people in jail even though they have yet to be convicted of a crime.

Second, by requiring payments or imposing restrictions, bail allows courts to give defendants an additional motivation to return. Namely, if defendants fail to return or flee, they lose the money they've paid.

Third, by allowing a court to refuse to grant bail where defendants pose a risk to others or are likely to flee, 
it allows the court to protect the safety of the community and ensure the integrity of the criminal justice process.

So, bail is not a punishment imposed against those who have been accused of a crime, it's a way to ensure the that criminal defendants appear in court as needed while simultaneously protecting the community and giving accused criminals the ability to live their lives while the charges against them have yet to be proven.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: The idea is innocent until proven guilty, if a person does pose a risk of harm to society in the judges opinion there will in fact not be a bail set forth.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: People have had the right to bail since roughly the 1200's in the UK system.

It's sort of important to understand what bail is - it's a promise that you will return for trial, and collateral to make sure that you do.  If you have a 10K/year job and a house worth 50K, I can set your bail at 50K, but if you have a 100k/year job and a house worth 500k, I will need to set your bail at 500k (or more).  Determining a fair amount for bail is exceptionally difficult, especially in cases you hear about because someone may be willing to offer up money to help you meet bail even if you have virtually no means of your own.  This is in part what happened to people who provided bail money for Julian Assange.  

So why do we have bail?  Well first - innocent until proven guilty, but also because you can abuse the system by throwing people in jail on charges that you know will get dismissed, but in the process destroy peoples lives.  A right to bail means that you have a chance to manage your defence, and takes away an incentive for a sheriff to arbitrarily detain you.  We've seen in the US a serious problem with 'asset forfeiture' where police departments seize money on suspicion of a crime (groundless or not) and then simply keep the money.  That's bad, and that's the sort of abuse the UK aimed to stamp out in 1275 (it's a back and forth battle of course).  

Habeus Corpus and the Bill of Rights (the UK ones, which pre-date the US by a century) guarantees an updated right to bail that isn't excessive (whatever that means).  It's still up to a magistrate (judge) to decide how much, but the guidelines mean you should be able to get bail.  

Basically the problem boils down to two issues.  1.  How do you organize a defence if you are detained, and how to manage and pay for that defence if your lively hood is taken away while detained?   2.  You are innocent until proven guilty, and sheriffs cannot be trusted to treat you as such.

Bail lets you manage your defence and avoid arbitrary detention.  But it also acts as a means to prevent you from running away.  It can be denied if you are not likely to show up back in court, or if you might try and interfere with witnesses, or commit further offences.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Bail is there partially to make sure that authorities don't arrest someone just to interfere with their lives. 

if bail was not allowed and I was a cop with a grudge against someone I could arrest them and watch gleefully as their lives got destroyed.

As they sat in jail waiting weeks or months for their trial:


-they would get fired from their job for not showing up for weeks, 

-if they are a student they would fail their classes, 

-they would not make money, so they will fall behind on their bills,

-they may get kicked out of their house for not paying rent, etc. 

of course, once they go to trial, they will be found innocent and let go, but by then it's too late: the damage is done!

edit: formatting
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: I think its best if you think about it in reverse.

The question is, how can a court justify jailing a potentially innocent person without a trial?

A court needs compelling reasons to deny bail.   Beyond that, bail is supposed to be a guarentee that the person shows up.

The bail system has been commercialized and broken, with bail amounts no longer representing realistic amounts, but instead are handled by a third part... a bail bondsman...
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: You get your money back after your court date. You don't lose any money. Bail is set, you pay bail, then when the court case comes and you show up, they give it back to you. The bail money is just an incentive for you to show up. If someone skips the court date, they don't get the bail money back.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: In the US you're considered innocent until proven guilty, so you have to give the defendant an option to fight their charges from the street, but there also has to be an incentive to show back up for court. Here in the US you have monetary bail conditions and non-monetary bail conditions. Non-monetary conditions are just that, no money involved.  These conditions can include house arrest with an ankle monitor, drug and alcohol treatment with random testing, having to stay away from a business you allegedly stole from or a person you allegedly assaulted, etc. Monetary bail is issued at an arraignment or prelim and is usually set after considering  the severity of the crime and an offender's previous criminal record. A judge might make somebody pay cash bail, which is the full amount, or 10%, which is just a percentage. In most cases, if a person is in compliance on bail (not incurring new charges, generally obeying the rules of society) they get their money back after trial.  If not, they forfeit the posted bail and go back to jail. Additionally, a person could get unsecured bail with a monetary number attached. An example would be $2,500 un-secured. This mean that a person is released on the condition he/she remain in compliance with the law.  If they don't comply with the bail regulations, then they could be remitted to jail, and then they would have to pay the full $2,500 to get back out. 

Edit. And of course all this depends on the municipality, county, state/commonwealth you're in, which there are numerous of.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: The bail/bond system in the US is horribly unfair. It is for the most part arbitrary (I saw one the other day where a judge set the amount at $10,000 and the defendant didn't feel it was fair. He mouthed off to the judge and the judge raised it to $100,000, I could be wrong as to the amount of the increase, but the point still remains.. The defendant was punished by the raising of the amount because the judge was passed at him. It also leads to false confessions because, as many have stated, the poor cannot come up with the 10%, much less afford to lose it no matter the outcome of the charges. These people have families who need their fathers/mothers out and caring for them so they take the plea not considering the long term ramifications to their lives. This is not even getting into the Isadora of having to stay in the horrific and dangerous conditions of a jail/prison. Trust me, spend some time there and you will agree to any plea as long as you don't have to start in jail. The point is that the system is terribly broken.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Bail is merely a promise to come back to your trial.  You give the court something which they will keep if you do not come back to the trial.  It could be property or money.  There is no reason to hold someone who has not been convicted of a crime to await trial.  

However, the types of bail held [vary by situation](_URL_0_).  The most common is cash bail, in which you post a cash amount to be released, which the court will keep if you fail to show up in court, in addition to the consequence of the trial/court appearance.  The other kind is a surety bond, where someone like a bail-bondsman promises to either pay the full bail amount should you not appear, and promises to bring you to court - in which case they only have to provide a percentage of the total bail.   

So it's not about paying for release, it's about the arrested individual providing something tangible in addition to their word, to assure they appear in court.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Let me flip this around. 

How can a court justify detaining a potentially innocent person before they are convicted. 

EDIT: Removed my simple example because I forgot this is Reddit and there are those who take things far to literally instead of grasping the point that people falsely accuse others of things all the time for a variety of reasons and it's wrong to lock people up on the perception of guilt. Can anyone say "Mattress Girl"
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Bail is a deposit for getting out of jail.  When you come back for trial, you get your money back.  If you don't show up, you lose it.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: --Didnt see this below, but didnt look that hard so i will add:--

You get bail back if you come to your court date, so they basically let you not have a huge life inconvenience, let you be innocent until proven guilty, but also make sure you that you dont miss your court date because then you arent getting back the money you put up for bail. 

As best as I can ELI5:

Law: "We think you did something bad so you have to go to court September 25th"

Law Breaker: "But its only April 8th, what am I supposed to do until then?"

Law: "We have to make sure you come to the court, so you have to stay in jail until then"

Law Breaker: "But i have a job and family that i have to take care of, and I didnt do it!"

Law: "Well, how about you give us something to hold on to so we know you will come back to get it"

Law Breaker: "Okay, here is $1000. It is a lot of money to me, so I cant afford to blow my court date off and lose it."

Law: "Cool, see you in September. Hav a gr8 suma xoxo"
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Because there is a presumption of innocence until you're proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. People who make bail were not being punished for a crime, they were being held to await their trial. Bail is meant to secure their appearance at trial, and failing to appear has serious financial consequences in addition to a further restriction of freedom of movement (i.e. getting thrown back in jail).

The more serious the charge, and the more severe the punishment at stake, the greater incentive there is to jump bail and not appear at trial. This is why bail gets more expensive for more serious offenses.

The other part of the answer to your question is that not every accused criminal is dangerous, or at least any more dangerous than the average person out on the street, and those who *are* more likely dangerous (such as those accused of murder) can be kept in by an extremely high bail amount, or in some cases denied bail altogether.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: **People are innocent until proven guilty.**

An accusation of a crime is not the same as a conviction. Punishment requires conviction, and conviction requires due process. The bail money secures the appearance of the defendant at their own trial. Ultimately the judge has some discretion for exceptional circumstances and can deny bail.  

**Everyone is entitled to a fair trial.**

Because it is more difficult to make preparations for a proper criminal defense in jail, putting people in jail before a trial leads to a slippery slope between accusation and conviction.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Government perspective ... bail is granted based on assumption of innocence ... the amount is balanced by how much risk of flight.

The court system will still work if a potentially dangerous person is walking free.  It won't work every single person accused of a crime is crammed in jail cells like sardines. 

What might or might not happen is irrelevant as long as that person comes back for their court date.

Sad, but true ...
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: It can't. That's why if a person is considered potentially harmful they are refused bail. Bail is to ensure that a person who is not potentially harmful is not unnecessary denied their liberty (remember that at this stage they might be innocent) by providing a way of ensuring that they turn up for their case without having to lock them up.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Simple, bail is used so people are motivated to come back to court and to not get out and commit more crimes.

A whole wide array of factors exist thats courts use to detrrmine these two factors, but courts usually let people with limited records or for really minor offenses out with little or no bail-just a promise to return.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: I have a question. Since the US is under the system innocent until proven guilty and you get arrested and held in jail because you cant afford the bail. How long can you be held and if found innocent of the crime can you sue for wrongful imprisonment?
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: The second question shouldnt be why the court can justify releasing a potentially harmful person in jail.  It should how can the court justify holding a potentially innocent person in jail over money.  The whole system is bullshit.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: It may hav already been stated but how can the court justify locking up a potentially innocent person, who has the benefit of being presumed innocent until proven guilty, unless they pay large sums of cash?
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: it's not a punishment, it's to ensure the accused shows up. as far as the court is concerned, the accused is as "potentially harmful" as you are.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Everyone is potentially harmful.  If you use that as a metric you are opening up the door for....well, the police state we are getting.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: I work in the Canadian justice system, so I can shed some light with regards to Canada.

Of course, innocent until proven guilty blah blah. In a normal bail hearing the crown needs to prove why the offender should not be released, and there are three grounds for this:
primary ground: they do not believe the accused will show up to court, and they must prove this. The crown will usually point to the offenders past (if there is one) and any previous court appearances they missed.
secondary ground: whether the safety of the public is at risk. The crown must show they believe the offender is at risk of re-offending when released on bail. Again, this is usually done by showing past behaviour of an offender. For example,  if that offender had been released on bail before and offended while released, the crown could point to this.
tertiary ground: "refers to whether detention is necessary to maintain confidence in the administration of justice, and is generally reserved for very serious offences. The four factors to consider are:
the apparent strength of the prosecutor's case,
the seriousness of the offence,
the circumstances surrounding the offence, including whether a firearm was used, and
if found guilty, whether the accused is liable to a potentially lengthy term of imprisonment, or if a firearm was involved, faces a minimum of 3 year of jail." source: wikipedia. 

There is a second type of bail hearing, and its called "reverse onus". 
With regards to this, if an offender had previously gotten bail, and then breached on any of the conditions/re-offended then the onus is no longer on the crown to prove to the judge why they believe the offender should be denied bail. The onus is now on the offender/defence team to prove to the judge they are releasable.
This is usually done through an intense release plan put together by the defence which mitigates the three grounds.

I have seen someone who was charged with 1st/2nd degree murder be released on $5000 No Cash Bail (this was insane to me). I have also seen people be denied bail.

The biggest thing with the Canadian justice system with regards to bail is that an offender, if deemed to be releasable cannot be given a bail amount higher than they can afford. For example, lets say I am homeless and the judge has decided i am a candidate for bail. The judge would not give me a $5000 cash bail because I cannot afford it. The judge would ask what I could afford and implement that. 

I have seen individuals get low cash bail amounts and be unable to pay, so at their next court date they might lower the cash bail amount or turn it into a no cash bail.

I will say, from my own personal views I dont think enough people get denied bail. Most individuals in jail are very familiar with being arrested and most have breached court orders on numerous occasions but they are still given bail. Makes me sick tbh.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: There is good information in some of the responses so far, and a lot of not-so-good information. A lot of responses are *overly* generalized and reflect just their jurisdiction or state, and there is a lot of variance in bail laws and practices from state-to-state and from jurisdiction-to-jurisdiction, and sometimes from judge-to-judge within the same jurisdiction!! This doesn't even include discussing the US Federal system...

So the best **ELI5** answer I could give you is the U.S. bail system is very old and though it happens everyday around the country, it is *absolutely not fair* that some defendants are able to post bail - with or without the aid of a commercial bail bondman -  to obtain pretrial release (regardless of their charge or the risk they pose to the public), while others, cannot post bail and remain detained during their pretrial proceedings.

Of course there's at least one jurisdiction, the courts in Washington D.C., which do not use "money bail" and rely on their Pretrial Services system to advise the courts on a judicial release recommendation of a defendant either being released (no bail money posted) or outright detained (disallowed from being released) pretrial. And at least four states, Illinois, Oregon, Wisconsin, and Kentucky, have outlawed commercial bail bonding altogether...though cash bail may be permitted, it does not go through a for-profit bail bondsman. And in state courts and legislatures, this is becoming a hot topic, with changes happening rapidly... Maine, New Jersey, Nevada and several other states are actively examining their bail practices.

Not quite "ELI5" but a good, concise overview/[infographic of the the problem](_URL_2_) can also be found on the Pretrial Justice Institute's website.

And for a more in-depth, non-ELI5 answer, I highly recommend you check out the Justice Policy Institute's paper "[BAIL FAIL: the Practice of Using Money For Bail](_URL_2_)."
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Bail not just giving a large sum of cash.

Bail is the court saying "we want to let you chill and live your life until your trial, since by our legal system you are innocent until proven guilty, but we are worried you are going to flee.  Give us 10,000 dollars that you get back if you show up but lose if you don't, and we will trust you to stay.

Bail bond companies will front this money to someone, but if you don't show up for court, they won't get their money but are legally allowed to hunt you, bring you back to the courts, and get their money.  They usually charge a flat fee for this service on the understanding that they WILL hunt you and find you if you go fugitive and your life will be a lot worse than if you just show and face the music.

Source:  I was accused of something I didn't do, and had my bail set at 10,000.  I was given as much time as I needed to call bail bondsmen (the jail had a special office for this with a list and a counselor to help people that don't know the process) for free until I found one that was available to take my case.  They charged ~300 dollars, and I never heard from them again because I walked out of jail later that day and the state didn't press any charges because I didn't do anything wrong.  The bondsmen put up 10k for me, took my 300, got their 10k back and that was that.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: It's not supposed to be a large sum of cash. It is supposed to be a refunded inconvenient amount of cash. Eg if a student is arrested for theft, set his bail at $500, so that he shows up for court. He really needs that $500, so he will show up to get it back. A rich person may have bail set at 10k since that would be an inconvenient amount to lose. So in come bail bondsmen, who now operate by default.  Bail bondsmen will pay your bail amount, for a 10% fee. So theoretically, you should now be paying less, though it will not be refunded. However, Courts assume you will use one, so now they set your bail at 10x the amount they would have. For a student on a petty crime, bail will be 5k. The student now has to pay that bail bondsmen $500 to loan that money for a few weeks. This works out great for the bondsmen as a high interest loan. For the courts it gives them free enforcement to pick up people who skip court. Great for everyone except the people being arrested. This is similar to other punitive fines, inconveniences, and 'fees' used to extract money from people who cannot fight back. See DUI fees, disproportionate juvenile sentencing, voting rights removal, prison lobbyists, etc for more details.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Another way to look at this is that sometimes, when the charges are extremely serious, bail will be denied. As a former defendant in a U.S. federal court case I can attest that even if I would have been allowed bail, I would have been detained in a half-way house while I was on pretrial release. Pretrial release eligibility is determined after a lengthy process where the U.S. Probation department assesses the likelihood of the defendant fleeing or re-offending. Many restrictions can also be applied to the defendant that keeps them from engaging with victims, having access to tools they may have used in the crime, etc. It is not an easy process and as many have put forth here, this behooves the fact that people accused are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty, which after going through the process I can attest is not the case at all. The main reason you may want to be out on bail is that it gives you a better capacity to prepare your defense.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: I'm potentially harmful.  I might go out and murder a dozen people this afternoon.  I'm not going to do that, but I might.  And you might.  And so might anyone else in this world.

You can't jail someone just because they might do something.  You can only jail someone for having done a thing already.  And until you're proven guilty in a court of law, you aren't legally guilty.  Bail is the compromise for people who we think are probably guilty when we want to make sure they won't flee to avoid the trial.  It's a compromise, but it's still a problem because there are people whose lives are ruined because they can't afford bail and they can't keep their lives together while they're in jail, awaiting trial for a crime they didn't commit.  And on the other side, there are people who pay their bail and flee even though they'll lose their bail money because they are guilty and want to avoid the consequences.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: I don't see a real ELI5 so I'll answer how I think of it:

It's less about releasing a potentially harmful person and more about not keeping a person in prison who is "innocent until proven guilty." They set a bail amount based on the severity and potential flight risk so that the person is very motivated to actually show up for trial. 

i.e. For a small crime like stealing $500, if you have a $10k bail you are certainly going to show up to court and get your money back even if you have to face the consequences. 

Keep in mind, bail money is returned to the person when they show up. If you cannot afford it you can pay a bondsman 10% which you don't get back, and then they have an incentive to make sure you show up.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: It's a lot, lot harder to assist in your own defense if you're in jail. Both from a funding perspective (you're not economically active, so unless you have assets in reserve, you can't afford to hire people to do things to develop your defense), and a functional perspective (being subject to someone else's [the jail's] timelines in terms of what you're allowed to do when). 

So, you add it all up, and you see why bail is a good thing:

* You're not prospectively being punished for something that hasn't been proven yet, and in fact if you didn't have bail as a concept it'd be an effective way to punish people without having actually violated a crime (i.e. sitting in jail waiting to be exonerated is punishment)

* It severely cripples your ability to provide for your own defense
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: You lose the 10% required by a bondsman up front. So if your bond/bail is $100,000 you lose the $10,000 put up. That's how a bondsman makes his money. The reason for bail is because everyone is considered innocent until proven guilty. The bond insures you make it to your court dates. A bondsman will hunt your ass down and take you back to jail if you miss a court date. As they are on the hook for the remaining 90% of your bond amount. Some serious cases require turning in passport and ankle monitoring so you can't flee. Real serious crimes won't even let you post a bond. You stay in jail until trial.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: People who are truly dangerous don't just get out on bail.  
  
  The cases this happens in are few and far between because a person would have to be rich.  
  
  For example, watch The Jinx on HBO.  The guy was arrested for MURDER and said oh, 250k, here you go.  and he was free.  Most violent offenders don't simply have $250k in cash at their disposal.
  
  The basic legal concept though, is that in our justice system a person is supposed to be viewed as innocent until they're proven to be guilty.  
  
  Simply being accused of a crime or arrested of a crime doesn't make you guilty of that crime.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: I'm not too sure how similar bail is in the US but in Canada bail doesn't mean you go Scott free. You'll still have to attend a trail for your crime. Having bail means you won't be in jail while you wait for your trial, also you can't pay for your own bail, someone else has to. If you run away or commit a crime while on bail, the responsibility lies solely on the person who bailed you out.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: People need to upvote one of the several comments that says you get your bail money back when you show up for trial. It's not a cash payment, and sometimes you only have to pay cash for part of it but then use your house (etc) as collateral for the rest. I didn't know this for a long time, and looking at some of the responses, I'm not the only one.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: All the top-level replies I can see are doing a good job of explaining the general concept of bail. What I'm not sure about (and perhaps what OP was driving at) is the amounts. Is it the case, as it appears on TV, that bail tends to scale with the severity of the alleged crime, and also with the strength of the evidence? How is *that* justified?
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: In western legal systems accused criminals are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law. There are two reasons someone might be denied bail. If there is a danger they might harm others. Or if there is credible evidence they might flee before trial.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: INNOCENCE UNTILL PROVEN GUILTY.

I know it's hard for americans to grasp this concept, since you like to judge and sentence someone without any evidence, but at least in theory, presumption of innocence is a thing.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: i'm answer a few other things.

sometimes, they post large sum bails to get criminals and organizations to show up and pay the money. sometimes they can get extra convictions.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: John Oliver did a great piece on Bail in the US.
Just another reason the US criminal justice system is completely bonkers

_URL_3_
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: I think even more importantly, how can you be made to pay money to avoid jail when you have not been convicted?
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Because if you are truly a danger you'll be denied bail. Not everyone who breaks the law is necessarily a threat however.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: That's your answer right there: A large sum of cash. It's really that simple. Greed is a hell of a motivator.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Because that person could be innocent. Schools really need to work on hammering home free speech and innocent until proven guilty
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: Conversely, how can they justify incarcerating people who can't afford bail if they are presumed to be innocent.
question: The legal concept of bail. How can a court justify releasing a potentially harmful person for a large sum of cash? answer: How can you justify detaining someone who may be entirely innocent of all crimes they're charged with?
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: All major religions, well the Abrahamic religions anyway. Teach that sex before marriage is wrong. Hence being 'anti-sex'. 

Edit: When I said 'anti-sex', I was assuming that OP meant societies attitude towards sex before marriage. I didn't mean that any Abrahamic religion forbids sex.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: What about the Mormons? Catholics?  I feel like in those religions, once you're married it is expected that you bang and make babies until you die.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Well, at least with Christianity, this is how it works:
Christianity's main selling point is that you are saved from all your sins if you will only accept Jesus Christ into your heart, because he died for your sins. So if you repent, and accept him, and try not to sin so much, you'll be saved.
Unfortunately, you can only convince people that they need a savior from their sins if you can convince them that they've sinned (that they are sinners). If your only sins are things like murder, not very many people need Christianity to save them--only murderers. So, you have to expand sin to cover a whole bunch of things that people LIKE to do... like have sex with each other, or masturbate.
So yes, as another user commented, it's a method of control. There are just a few different layers to it.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: It has to do more with "sexual immorality" than anti-sex. Sex within the confines of marriage is always celebrated and accepted.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: A lot of people make the mistake of thinking that religious people are anti-sex. We're not. We love sex. Sex is great. 

The difference is that we believe sex is also sacred. It is the power to create life and strengthen a bond between a husband and wife. Using it outside of that context is what is discouraged. 

It's difficult to draw a comparison between a secular and religious level of doing something sacred outside its prescribed context but I might liken it to someone playing taps over Arlington National Cemetery. It's a tradition meant to honor and pray reverence to the fallen who may have been volunteers, or may have been drafted, but answered the call to defend this nation and died in the course of their duty. It is extremely sacred (whether you're religious or not you can tell the feeling and weight of the act when you're there). Now that, performed properly can be likened unto sex within marital bonds. 

Sex outside of marriage can be likened to someone who decides to play "Tequila" on their horn instead of Taps. You just shouldn't do that. You're in the wrong setting, you're doing something you shouldn't, and you're offending everyone involved. 

Sex outside of marriage has been made a norm by society, that doesn't mean it should be acceptable. This is a case of, "What is popular isn't always right, and what is right isn't always popular." 

tldr - Religions - Mine in particular - Aren't anti-sex. We just believe it is a sacred act and should be performed within the bonds of marriage. To do otherwise cheapens it and perverts its purpose.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: The simple non judgemental answer is that all western faith-based religions and many eastern religions have strict restrictions on sexuality, marriage customs and gender roles within families and societies.

Consequently, more religious societies are more driven to follow these proscriptions and judge others harshly for not doing so. 

They don't view this as being anti-sex. Indeed, many devout Christians, Muslims and Hindus are consumed by the desire for and love of sex - the latter invented the Kama Sutra. Instead, they view their beliefs and demands about sex as both a submission to god's will and a, frankly, limited demand hardship because within marriage sex is just as expected as it is forbidden prior to or outside of marriage, whether for procreative reasons or simple beliefs about gender roles.

This doesn't always work out well for everyone and I think it's ridiculous, but that's why from Karachi to Mumbai to The American South, ultra religious societies come off as wildly anti-sex.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Nietzsche discussed this in his critique of 'slave morality'. Nietzsche prescribed religion as belonging to the 'slave caste' as resentment of life and those who enjoy life. The 'masters', who the slaves saw as evil, enjoyed their power, their health, their wealth and their sex. Slaves, who rarely could get any of these for long, became jealous and through cunning created religion as a way to undermine the values of the masters. Virtues like wealth, power, strength, independence and sexual virility became 'sins', and chastity, poverty, meekness and obedience became virtues. Thus, much of religion's virtues are a direct consequence of the slaves' ressentiment of life and their desire to subjugate those who enjoy life through an underhanded morality. The slaves achieved their revenge, fuelled by envy, by convincing the world that character traits like virility, strength and independence were to be shunned and considered evil.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: _URL_0_

* Care/harm: cherishing and protecting others.
* Fairness/cheating: rendering justice according to shared rules. (Alternate name: Proportionality)
* Liberty/oppression: the loathing of tyranny.
* Loyalty/betrayal: standing with your group, family, nation. (Alternate name: Ingroup)
* Authority/subversion: obeying tradition and legitimate authority. (Alternate name: Respect.)
* Sanctity/degradation: abhorrence for disgusting things, foods, actions. (Alternate name: Purity.)

These are thought to be the values behind morality. Conservatives and liberals prioritize different categories.

Authority, Purity, and Ingroup correlate together. These people are more prone to religiousness (as they respect authority and value their ingroup). So it's not so much that one causes the other. Rather, people who tend to be religious also tend to emphasize purity.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: I find it interesting that the two things religions like to control most are sex and food (fasting/forbidden foods etc). So, our two most basic needs, and they control those.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Sex is at the root of so much evil that men and women do to each other. After all, animals -- including apes and monkeys -- kill competitors (and their children) to have the best mates. Humans developed (or it is natural) an ethos that sex must be regulated to maintain healthy relationships between people and to raise children and families in a healthy home with less conflict.

Sex creates conflict between humans.

Religion creates rules and boundaries to eliminate conflict by regulating our conduct. When humans break these rules, as we often do, conflict abounds.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: There are two (predominant) creative macrosystem circuits in the brain that humans rely on to convert limbic tension. 

One is fast, funny, sexy. 

The other is big picture, futuristic, transcendent. 

We usually rely on one over the other, we almost NEVER use both at once. 

By focusing on the transcendent function, you reduce the attention, focus and importance on the sex function.

Classic Apollonian man vs Dionysian man. 

Neither is more important. But don't ask religious folks that.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Most popular religions are very old.

Until very recently, sex outside of marriage caused everyone a lot of problems: Unwanted pregnancies and STDs. 

So most popular religions were correct to impose beliefs that discouraged sex outside of marriage. It was beneficial for everyone. But times have changed.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Yet they want women to marry and pump out as many fucking little shitholes as possible.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: 1) Religious people tend to follow interpretations of their religion, rather than the Word of God.

2) The people who create those interpretations seek power.

3) The need to have sex is extremely strong in humans.

4) Controlling that sexual need (and the feelings surrounding it -- guilt, for example) gives the controller *enormous* power.

So it's not so much about "religion dictates that sex is bad." It's that "I want to control you, and a great way to do that is to control your access to and attitudes regarding sex. My interpretation of your religion accomplishes this."
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: It's just another method of control. If the only sex that is allowed is in a church approved marriage, that gives the church a lot of power over people.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Lot of cynicism in this thread. Can I offer an alternate explanation? Because I feel the issue of "control" is being read from some profoundly anti-religious premises.

I think it's more fair to say that most religions have as a goal to inspire their followers to positive collective actions (however some have perverted this goal). A fundamental aspect of this is that it requires individuals to learn how to be in possession of their own individual desires and instincts, so those may be directed toward a greater good rather than for their own sake. In other words, to rule their desires rather than to be ruled by them.

Each faith approaches this in its own way. Alcohol consumption, for instance, is a powerful and addictive physical pleasure that may, in moderation, promote eusocial behavior but in excess causes socially undesirable things. So religious followers are encouraged to drink in moderation or to abstain altogether not because the church relishes mind control, but because alcohol abuse can compromise an individual's ability to positively contribute to their community.

Sex being one of the most powerful human instincts, it shouldn't be surprising that religious people are encouraged to rule their sexual desire rather than be ruled by it. Again each faith approaches this differently, but historically most western religions have seen too little eusocial benefit to sex beyond its capacity to strengthen the bonds of a heterosexual marriage and to produce new babies to grow their communities. Weighed against some pretty negative possible consequences of unregulated desire (STIs, unwanted pregnancies, not to mention rape) it followed that teaching belIevers to master their desire by restricting sex to within marriage was the right bumper-sticker message.

Where this misses the boat, of course, is that it neglected the eusocial benefits non-marital and non-hetero sex can have. As some Christian denominations came to realize that their communities functioned better when committed gay couples were welcomed instead of shunned, or when children were trusted with factual sex education, some have softened their positions. The calculus should have been clear from the beginning: that repressing non-marital sexual behavior actually had an anti-social effect (unwanted and teen pregnancy) and so did persecuting homosexuals for their sexual orientation (the 80s AIDS crisis, gay suicide, and anti-gay hate crime). All of these hamper the ability of a community to come together and work for the common good-- which is why I'm navely optimistic that in the long run, we'll see most mainstream religions evolve to have more positive attitudes about sex that see or more inclusively as the social good that it is... But they will still teach their followers to rule over and channel their sexual urges so that it stays within the boundaries in which it remains beneficial to society.

TL;DR: Religions teach followers to master their physical desires, so that they can be assets to collective good - in the same way defensive driving or gun safety classes train the eusocial uses of potentially anti-social behavior.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: The root of anti-sex in abrahamic religions really has nothing to the with sex but with denial of this worldly sensual pleasures, which has its roots in platonic thought and most likely made its way into Christianity through Augustine of hippo (an ex platonist). The line of reasoning is more or less this world is ever changing and false, thus, we should deny our senses and place the utmost faith in the unchanging godly realm that we come from and will some day return to (ie realm of platonic forms or heaven).
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Control sex and you control social norms. By creating social norms you control the behavior of the people within a society, and deviance from those norms cause the people to look at you for answers, imbuing you with power in the process. Power is then wielded in political spectrums, allowing those with power to further enforce the norms and punish deviance.

Religion inherently seeks to attain and exert power over people, this is just one way of accomplishing that.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Not so much anti-sex as anti sex that isn't for having babies by two members of the same religion. A baby born to two parents from a religion is a new member automatically. It's all about filling pews. It's best to get them young.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: The more anti-sex they are in childhood, the bigger freaks they turn out to be as adults. 

It just seems like they are anti-sex, in reality those people are mostly about keeping the women in their control.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: The 3 of the biggest religions of the world (well, Judaism **used** to be one of the biggest religions in the world before all of that Hitler hullabaloo) stem from basically the same faith.

Also, they have always been controlled by men. And how do you make sure that men keep controlling your religious institution? By making women subservient. To this day, you cannot be a female prelate in any of the aforementioned faiths unless you subscribe to particular sects of Christianity. Notice how almost all of the prophets were men and how lineages are traced from man to man.

Why did I mention all of this? Because if you study their holy texts closely, you'll notice how they only placed restrictions on **female** sexuality. If a woman is not a virgin on her wedding night, she must be stoned to death. Absolutely nothing is said about the men, though. In fact, I'm pretty sure the concept of male virginity didn't exist back then. If a woman's husband dies before she's given him an heir, she has to fuck all of his brothers in turn 'til she becomes pregnant. If you're a soldier, it's A-OK to slaughter anyone on the opposing side, male, female or child, but you should capture, rape and marry the female virgins. Then there's Islam, where most sects believe that you become a woman and can give consent (and get married) as soon as you begin menstruating and that if a married woman is raped, she probably brought it upon itself and must be killed because she committed adultery (at least the rapist will also be killed for the same crime).

TL;DR: Religions founded by and controlled by men perpetuates a cycle of oligarchy for men by controlling women through guilt and stigmatization.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: This is a larger issue: Abrahamic religions are anti sex because they see matter and flesh as a degeneration of the divine.

They consider what remains after death the only worthy part of the human experience.

"Non-Dual" schools of mysticism (Advaita Vedanta, Taoism, Tantrism...) on the other hand tends to have a more sane approach to sexuality since they consider enlightenment to be the union (Yoga) of the grossest parts of your manifestation to the most refined part of your being (Brahman), realizing unity in the very flesh,  they even consider sexuality as a tool for "spiritual transformation".
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: This is maybe a bit cynical, but anyways: Religions who promise an afterlife have a problem with non-monogamous relationships. As you are supposed to be reunited with all your loved ones for all eternity, complex family structures could be really awkward. Combine this with a world without birth control, and you get concepts like bastards and chastity. These concepts live on in religious traditions.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: I've been raised Catholic and consider myself a pretty conservative one at that but, if was in a meaningful relationship right now, given the way I currently feel, I'd definitely be having sex with her. Why? 

I'm a 19 year old sexually frustrated young man.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: The Duggars are about as christan as they come. And look at Michelle, i know she fucks like crazy.

So anti sex, no. Just anti sex before marriage.

Once that ring is on POPULATE THE FUCKIN EARTH!
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: To put it in general sense: All religions have their own ideals they believe people should follow, and so *in general* the more religious a society is less tolerant they are over differing or conflicting beliefs.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Human nature, in its most primal form, is the male trying to get exclusive rights to a female. Religion is a way to enforce this desire. Religion is not anti sex, its anti multiple sexual partners.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: It comes from a tendency of most religions to adopt a sort of ancient Greek "dualism" which is some kind of philosophical separation between flesh and spirit, usually dichotomizing them as evil and good respectively.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Because sex makes you feel good, and if you already feel good, what do you need religion for?
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: Religions are against sex outside of marriage, so you could say religion encourages marriage at younger age.
question: Why does it seem that the more religious a society is, the more anti-sex it is? answer: [Children of God] (_URL_1_) member here. WTF are you talking about religion being anti sex?
question: Why stockings are considered a necessary part of business attire for women?[deleted] answer: Bare legs for men or women is often seen as highly casual and therefore inappropriate for the workplace. This is why shorts and kilts are normally banned for men, and why women are often encouraged to wear pantyhose or stockings. In some highly conservative workplaces women may even be required to wear them.
question: Why stockings are considered a necessary part of business attire for women?[deleted] answer: It's not necessary everywhere, but in the places where it is the reason is tradition.  It's like men wearing ties.  They serve no real purpose but people have been wearing them for generations.
question: Why stockings are considered a necessary part of business attire for women?[deleted] answer: I think there were two aspects: modesty and luxury. Bare legs were not considered appropriate for church or the workplace. Silk stockings were an expensive accessory, so when women entered the office in the 50s and 60s, they were the equivalent of expensive sunglasses or a nice watch.

I don't think they are still considered appropriate in any but the stodgiest offices now.
question: Why green screens are green? Not red, blue or pink. answer: They can be (and sometimes are) made of other colors.

Green is the most common color because digital cameras are most sensitive to it.
question: Why green screens are green? Not red, blue or pink. answer: Not all uses green. Bule is also commonly used. Any vivid colour will work. Vivid green is just the colour farthest away from our normal day to day colours, and therefore giving the better edge. In some cases another colour may be better.
question: Why green screens are green? Not red, blue or pink. answer: They do have blue screens as well as other colours. If you had to wear green clothing, then you use a different colour background, otherwise the clothing will disappear. If you wore blue, then green background...
question: Why green screens are green? Not red, blue or pink. answer: Bright green is often used because it's unlikely that the person or anything they're wearing will be that exact colour.

Bright blue is also used for the same reason.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: Healthy women do not have an egg ready for fertilization 3/4 of the time. So a birth control pill for women just has to make this not-ready state last longer.

Healthy men always have sperm ready to ejaculate. So a birth control pill for men is much harder; it has to make your body behave in a way that it never naturally does.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: Research has been done/is being done on men in India on a gel that would be injected into the vas defrens (Vasalgel). It is 100% effective and can last for up to 10 years. It is completely reversible. What it does is it would break up the sperm. It's basically like having a vasectomy, but its so much easier to reverse. The gel is injected via a surgical procedure into the vas defrens. In order to have it reversed, another procedure is required to just flush out the gel from the vas defrens. Found a good article on it, too. Enjoy! Hopefully further research can get this on the market ASAP.

_URL_0_
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: They do not have a pill, but they do have what is called [Vasagel](_URL_1_), which basically injects gel into the man's vas deferens and as the sperm pass through it basically kills them, and when you want to have children again, they just flush it out and in a few months you are back to normal.

It is legal in India and other countries but it is still ongoing with trials here in the states, in fact they just started Baboon trials after great success with rabbits recently. Hopefully the mens' version of birth control will start human trials at the end of this year.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: It's being worked on but biologically it is far easier to disrupt one hormone in women and disrupt their whole cycle.  They haven't found a magic bullet for men that will interfere with **only** sperm production while leaving basic functionality as normal.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: Other than vasectomy, they have had some difficulty in alternatively coming up either an oral or injectable method that consistently and effectively suppresses the production of sperm without causing intolerable side effects.  [Published study](_URL_2_)
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: Makes more sense to fire blanks than shoot at a bullet proof vest
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: Plenty of people are working on it and there are multiple drugs in various stages of development.  The version I've heard most about involves an injection of a gel with an electric charge that disables the sperm.  There are also a bunch of pills with different chemicals being researched.  

However, as Amarkov explained, it's easier to stop a single egg that's not always ready for fertilization than it is to stop millions of sperm that are always available for release.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: It takes a LOT more to disrupt the male reproductive processes than the female ones.

With women, a relatively small amount of the right hormone introduced at just the right time can throw the whole thing out of whack, whereas male sex organs won't quit cranking out sperm until long after his testosterone has dropped so low that he's lost all libido.

Interrupting sperm production WITHOUT disrupting libido is the trick, and it turns out, a rather difficult one.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: australian researchers are working on it, and have successfully made a "pill" for mice. it works by inhibiting the two proteins that activate a sperm's tail (the tail does not work in the testes) after it leaves the testes. it causes only temporary infertility and does not affect sex drive or performance, it simply makes it impossible for the sperm to swim. they are working on translating this to humans.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: I remember my girlfriend asking the same question but worded it "doesn't it seem easier to take the bullets out of the gun than to wear a bulletproof vest?."
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: A few reasons. As other posters have said, there are issues with disrupting the hormonal control for the production of sperm in men. This is why most new methods for trying to devise a male birth control either try to disable the lil guys mid-ejaculation or kill them outright. 

While these issues are real, they are (in my opinion) not the true reason we don't yet have a male birth control in wide use. The reason is because the female methods of birth control have proven to be so effective and are so cheaply available in many parts of the world.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: It has. Depo-Provera. Well, in a sense it is birth control. Repeat sex offenders in some states are required to take it. It is commonly referred to as chemical castration.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: I cannot remember where I read it, but they have just found a way to make the birth control pill for men. It is still years and years from hitting the shelves, due to testing and side effects etc. The pill uses 2 proteins to stop the delivery of the sperm into the semen. It basically puts a road block up so the sperm stays in the balls. The semen still comes out but without sperm. 

FOUND IT!!!!   _URL_3_
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: My great uncle is a professor of psychopharmacology (I had to look it up, but yes, its a real word) and he is part of a team working in exactly this. The concept is built around the idea of limiting sperm mobility. Don't really know much more than that unfortunately.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: the easiest way i was told. in a woman you have to control one thing, the egg, in the man there is millions of the fuckers to keep in check and if one cheeky bastard gets though, then its not effective.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: Keeping things really simple: Birth control pills for women are doses of hormones that stop their eggs from maturing.  In men, there isn't a hormone that controls sperm production so there is no easy pill.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: _URL_4_

Here's a pretty recent article about an advancement in the male birth control. I remember it coming up on my BBC App in December.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: The birth control pill for women mimics a natural state during which the woman ceases to release eggs - pregnancy. 
Men only cease to produce sperm when they grow old and decrepit. There is no healthy state that occurs naturally during which men do not produce sperm for a brief period of time. Thus instead of recreating a natural hormonal state, scientists have to come up with a new one.
Also, the repercussions of pregnancy are obviously greater for women so they are the ones more likely to take responsibility.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: I couldn't find any corroborating articles but I heard Silodosin has been used in Asia and is being tested in Europe as a once a day oral pill form of male birth control.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: They've been working on it for years.  One of the downsides, they found, was that it seems to cause impotence.  That kind of renders the product (and other things) useless.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: The male pill is already under research. It just needs to be perfected as stopping fertilisation (female pill) is much more effective and less invasive.
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: A male birth control option has been invented. It's just not a pill, and it hasn't finished going through trials yet. _URL_5_
question: Why isn't a birth control pill for men invented yet?It seems like with medical advances, someone, somewhere is either working on it, or has it in use. answer: They are working on that and have done it in mice

_URL_6_
question: how do groups like ISIS attract middle class westerners to their cause, and why are they mostly male? answer: Many devote muslims, even fanatics are women but they typically aren't used as fighters for the same reasons why warriors have traditionally been male in all cultures.  Those reasons are compounded by the fact that extremest Islam is very hostile to the idea of women leaving "their place."

It's not common for ISIS and groups like it to recruit people from middle class.  Most are from slums that never really integrated into the country the immigrated to.  The few that were better off (which likely includes the British man who executed that Journalist) are likely motivated by strong religious convictions.

Why educated people develop fanatical religious convictions is a whole other big topic that I won't go into right now.
question: how do groups like ISIS attract middle class westerners to their cause, and why are they mostly male? answer: With so many tens of millions of middle-class people, you're going to have a couple who are mentally ill or have such dysfunctional lives that they do incredibly foolish things. It's just probability.
question: how do groups like ISIS attract middle class westerners to their cause, and why are they mostly male? answer: Fundamentalist Muslim sects don't have a lot to offer ladies...
question: how do groups like ISIS attract middle class westerners to their cause, and why are they mostly male? answer: If Al-Qaeda is keeping their distance from this group I'm pretty sure it's going to be/stay a halal sausage party.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: A skimmer is a device that can read the information off your credit card without you noticing. The information can be used to create a clone of your card that can be used to buy items. For example someone could have a skimmer on a payment terminal. You could use the terminal and the skimmer stores your credit card information internally. Later on the criminals can return to retreive their skimmer and read your credit card information. They can then make a replica of your credit card and go to another store and buy something. Your bank will process the payment as it thinks you made the purchase. Nobody will notice until you check your credit card statement and makes the bank aware of this. By that time it can be very hard to track down the criminals.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Former Credit Card fraud investigator and current fraud consultant/strategist here. There are a few ways that people make money using skimmers (some of which are mentioned here) but some aren't. *Quick edit: the explanations about going to stores and just buying stuff are great - but they are not easy 'cash earners' for the fraudster. They can only buy so many items before the card is declined and then they have to worry about selling it all. The explanation below is how they earn just cold hard cash. 

First and foremost, a credit card skimmer is just an easy way to collect a pool of credit card numbers. The pool will keep getting fresh new data as long as the skimmer is well placed/hidden (ie. a gas station pump). Also, the magnetic strip on your credit card contains a ton of information including but not limited to the name on the card, the credit card number, and expiration. The first 6 digits of the card even identify where the card came from (such as bank, issuer, etc.)

Let's call the guy who made/placed the skimmer the "fraudster". The fraudster collects the credit card data that the skimmer has read and can do multiple things with it.

1) As mentioned, he/she can sell large swaths of these CC numbers online in auctions (usually anonymously on TOR). Since they know the first 6 digits, they can even bucket them into high value cards. For example, Amex cards typically have higher credit limits than a regular debit card. They might organize the Amex cards into one list and earn more on that list than they would from say, Bank of America debit cards. 

2) Another thing they can do is transfer the stolen card info onto a new card (someone mentioned this) BUT it is actually not as common to do this onto an existing card with the fraudster's name on it. Instead, these fraudsters usually buy blank hotel keys in bulk (very easy to purchase, common item for hotels/motels). They now have 500 physical cards that they can transfer the stolen credit card info onto. Now these cards are just blank white plastic cards, so going to a store and using them is pointless and too risky. Instead, they sign up to get their own credit card machine. Some are pretty cheap or even free (such as PayPal Here or Square). They can pretend to be some store using fake information and then start physically swiping the cards with the stolen data. The advantage of physically swiping them is the transaction will appear to the processing company and bank/card issuer as done "in-person" since the card was swiped. These are seen as lower risk transactions since most fraud is committed via just "keyed-in transactions" (such as online purchases, over the phone purchases, etc.). The machine that reads the cards only reads the magnetic strip, so it doesn't recognize that these are just generic hotel keys or crappy plastic cards someone bought online. So to the machine/reader, and to the credit card company and the credit card processor, it is just a normal physically swiped transaction.

There are more nuances and ways this can get more lucrative but that's the basics of it. Luckily most cardholders are protected from this kind of fraud by their bank/card issuer. If you recognize bad transactions they will cancel the card, refund your money, and send you a new one. The bummer is the people who get hosed are the businesses that might unknowingly accept your stolen card information and sell something. When you get a refund from your bank after "disputing" a transaction - that money typically comes from the business it was used at, not the bank. So if a business is tricked into selling a $2,000 painting over the phone to a guy who gave them a stolen credit card number - that business is going to lose the painting and the money and there's nothing they can do about it since the responsibility to investigate was theirs (according to most processors).

Feel free to let me know if you have any questions! I've always been a lurker but this question inspired me to sign up and try my hand at answering something. 

Edit*: Wow so happy with how much interaction and questions there are with this explanation! I'd be happy to do an AMA at some point since it seems there is a lot of confusion and remaining questions about fraud, how it's caught, etc.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Cop here:

To add to how everyone has explained how they steal your money, here is how they keep it. 

Instead of buying things at local stores, they trade/sell numbers to people across the country, making it difficult for local law enforcement to work the case. Then, they buy Bitcoin or those visa vanilla gift cards. Then, they have clean spendable cash and it doesn't matter if your card gets shut off. The criminals who take a step further then buy money orders with the vanilla gift cards and western union that money to a bank account, often in South America. 

It's a complex process. 


To avoid being a victim:

Always use a credit card at gas pumps, it's easier to get your money back if you get skimmed. 

Always fill up at the pumps in the middle, that are in direct view of the door and clerk, it's less likely they will put skimmers on those. 

Try to see if the tape over the seams of the "payment area" are broken, if they are the box has been opened by a criminal, however sometimes they get in without breaking the tape.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: The skimmer reads the information off of your card's magnetic stripe and saves it.  Later, the thief retrieves the skimmer and writes the data onto a blank card so it now contains all of your card's data, and then uses it to make purchases, which get charged to you.  Alternatively, they just use the card number and expiration date encoded in the magnetic stripe to make online purchases.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Ex bank employee here. 

The primary way (in the UK anyway) couples a skimmer with a small camera which films the keypad. The skimmer reads your card info and the camera films you entering your pin. 

They then put info from the skimmed card on any other strip card (lotyalty cards, phone top up cards, gift cards etc) and use this to create a clone. When they have a big pile of cards they hit up the cash points withdrawing the maximum amount (300 per day, or around $400) per card every day until you notice and cancel the card.

We had reports of people making 10-15,000 per day with this technique if they snagged enough cards, and this is why it's crazy important for you to hide your PIN number when you type it in even if there's nobody around. If they clone your card but don't have your pin it's almost useless, if they have both be prepared for a pain in the ass whirlwind of police reports, fraud claim forms and back-and-forth before you get it sorted. 

EDIT: in case anyone was tempted, we also caught the vast majority of people doing this. ATMs are crazy-well defended with cameras, and are in highly monitored areas. Even if people put a mask on a few streets away we still had footage of them on the approach that was good enough to catch them.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Have smart cards and PINs effectively killed this off? I can't recall last time I swiped my card in the UK.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: A couple of ways:

They read and store the info from the strip on the card.

They have a circuit board under the number pad that read and store keystrokes. 

Then they come back and pick it up. They are made to look exactly like the real reader and are designed to slip on easily. 

example: _URL_0_

some pictures I found on Google: _URL_1_
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Go on ebay and buy an old point of sales credit card reader.  Alternatively, liberate one from your nearest Rite Aid or wherever.  Take it apart and install a second mag strip reader, a matrix between the rubber buttons and the actual button switches, a small PLD and a bluetooth transceiver.  Buy a cheap burner phone.  Use it to replace one at your local highschool-dropout staffed convenience store and put the burner phone somewhere within bluetooth range (like beneath a rack).  Each swipe texts mag data and pin number to burner.  Go pick up burner.  Profit.

Alternatively, get a job as a waitress at a sit-down restaurant and by-pass 90% of the technological requirements and just buy a skimmer.

Thankfully chips are making this exponentially harder to do.  Too bad America failed on the +pin part.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Credit card scammers more commonly enroll in a merchant service provider to get a new "business"  signed up to accept credit cards. This then allows them to charge all the cards(copied or keyed in) and have it deposited into a bank account. If the merchant service doesn't have an underwriting process, the account is usually approved and then the person can start processing the cards immediately upon receiving the terminal or card reader. Even worse, most of the scammers would just get an online only account that allows them to key in the cards and process them that way. 

Source: worked in merchant services. Shutdown and encountered so many fake and stolen "businesses"
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: google Credit Card skimmer
_URL_2_
literally the first link and the standard for discussion due to the immense amount of research that Brian Krebs has put into the topic
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Card skimming victim here: I'm not an expert on the crime's machinery or master plan, but it happened to me with my debit card (not a credit card). 

I used a sketchy looking machine in Toronto. I don't know if the skimmer have been added after the fact or the owners of the machine itself where skimming numbers, but I used it one night late after work. Not long after I started seeing deductions from my bank account on a regular basis. Every few weeks. $50 here, $60 dollars there. Each deduction was taken by a nondescript company name. I think the plan for skimmers like this is to bury small transactions in your statements with mysterious but legitimate-looking company. With me it worked: It took me about three months to figure it out. Once I did, my bank took care of it and the money was returned to me (TD Canada Trust, in case you're interested). 

The bank representative explained to me if that the transactions are kept small and spread out over many company names because it's not worth the bank's time to chase down a hundred different companies, each of whom took $250. There's a lot I don't know about the "big picture" stuff, however... like why they can't track down the owner of the ATM and  do something with that guy. But given that the bank refunds the stolen amount, I'm sure they're extremely focused on finding a solution.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: . Every country is a little different when it comes to cc frauds so i will tell you guys how its done in canada. First and formost is to collect the credit card data. This was very easy to do in the late 90s and early 2000s. Yu could collect credit data by applying a skimming device on an atm machine. The skimming device is a little cover piece that fits perfectly on the mouth piece of where yu inject ur card. These were made by highly skilled people who would sell them to low level fraudsters. The skimmer could only  record the card data not the pin so a camera is usually hidden to record the pin. If yu happened to cover your pin then the card info would only work for swiping at retailers. If yu got the pin then yu could withdrawl from the card and yu would be getting debits and credits. Once the skimmibg device and camera is placed the fraudster would wait for a few hours and come back and remove it. Once home he watched the video and extracts the info. Using a reader/writer which can be bought on kijiji or online he copies the data which for yu who dont know are just numbers. All it takes to copy the card is to swipe a blank card in the reader click write on the program swipe card few more times and then double check if its written there. Next he records the pin on the card using a pen so he remembers. Forgot to mention the cards. Yu can use anything walk into a gas statio. And steal gift cards or purchase what are called faces which are Fake cc cards that are printed and engraved and embosed just like yhe real thing. No one can tell except if yu look at the card signature which is rough so yu can sign it but on the faces they are shiny cause it was printed. If a card is signed with a marker its probally fake. Walk into a store with the face swipe and ur gone. When your info gets stolen like this the card will work.for a while because the banks really thinks it yu. If yu got debit cards yu could withdral the money. Now for the real stuff. Employees working for pos terminals moneris have hacked the device called the ingenico. They learned how to add a device in the machine that copies the data and the pin. A bluetooth device is added so it can be sent remotely. This is how the big.money is made. Yu need a dummy pad which is just a term for a random stolen pad it is only used to seem like the real one is still there. So heres how it goes. Yu walk into the store during.closing yu switch the pad with the dummy go home and get it chipped. Next morning yu go bacl and put it back.and take the dummy back. Because yu replaced it at night no1 even knows the real.one was gone. Now the altered pad is back in there collecting data. If yu happen to know the owner. Or employee who agree _URL_3_ it you can just get it chipped nd put it in surprisingly alot of owners do this. Yu leave that pad in there for months it will collect over 2000 numbers. Yu dowbload it via bluetooth and password. Now yu need to get money. Hpwever banks started to cancel cards from a batch if yu ran the cards one by one. Meaning yu withdrew money from card 1 out of 2000. Then take the 2nd card out of 2000 then withdrawl etc etc. Banks would catch on after reports.of 30 cards frauded then they could track that all 30 ppl used they card at canadian tire on dundas and the whole file would die. So criminals would do what was called a run they would use Every single card at the exact samr time. Homeboys calls all of his boys gives them all a box with a pin on it inside are the cards. He tells everyone to call this number at 6. At 6 everyone on the phone waiting for yhe pin on the _URL_4_ get the cards. This way everyone usese the card at 6 and the banks cant trace it because yu did alll 2000 in 5 mins. Fast forward 2016 chip cards are impenetrable. However. Crooks have learned that if yu insert ur card with no chip 3 times it will say swipe and yu can swipe. Tips to protect urself in 2017 in canada. If a machine ever ask yu tp swipe and enter pin it is frauded. The chip cannot be hacked but the info atill on thw swipe.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: My time to shine...
I work for a very large US domestic bank, on their "card team." I see this all day. Skimming is a very common practice among fraudsters. 

When a customer swipes their card in a terminal that has a reader the merchant and the customer do not have anyway of knowing that the card has been skimmed till it's too late. The card reader takes the info from the card and either does a) send info directly to another computer that the fraudster is looking at in real time and then they forward that info directly onto the black market. Or b) saves the info directly to the skimmer and then is retrieved later with a ton of different cards.

From there all of the info can be applied to dummie cards, think of a hotel, they have a stack of "blank cards" where they upload the room info to the card in one swipe. These cards typically have the fraudsters name printed on the card and look completely legitimate. 

Chip technology is a great way to combat this. Everytime the card is ran it places a one time card number for that transaction, then is changes to a different card number, it's kinda like an access code if you will. This is still possible to get around but not going into detail.

I was reading that people were inquiring about the PIN. I typically don't see these fake cards used at ATM's for that reason alone. Unless the fraudster did in fact install a camera to look at the PIN pad, this is not that common though. 

When using the chip technology to make a purchase it is the merchant who is the one that decides if it is going to be ran as "chip and signature" or "chip and PIN." The fraudsters know what stores do not ask for the PIN. Cough cough Walmart. (most of the time but I heard that will change.)

My tips and tricks for combating this. Chip readers are 9/10 times used at gas pumps. They are easier to install there, no camera like ATM, and usually nobody is around at night to watch them. What I personally do is shake the card terminal. If it wiggles GO TO ANOTHER PUMP. If you go to a place that you know only does chip and signature, use cash. ATM's typically are safe, remember the wiggle tip. 

If amyone has questions just ask.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: There was this show on Netflix, I forgot what it was called but it looked at the lives of criminals. One episode focused on a credit card thief. 

How he worked was that he knew a girl who worked in a restaurant as a waitress. When she would take a  customer's card when they were paying she would run it through a card reader machine she had in the back. Then she would give this machine that she had hundreds of stolen card numbers saved to it to this guy who would use these numbers to make a fake card with his own name on it with the stolen card number on the strip. 

From there he could go to any business and swipe the card (in the show they went to Best Buy) and if the cashier looked at the card it would have his name on it. The only risk would be if you looked on the receipt and saw a different name. 

It was funny though because when the guy was making the cloned card the guy whose show he was on started talking to him and messed him up.  He went to Best Buy and tried to buy an iPad but realized he made a card with his name on it but forgot to imprint the number into it.  

It was pretty interesting.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: I've  understood how skimmers work for a long time now. What I've never been able to get it how they get away with it? If you buy something online they can track where you shipped it, if you use in person there's no way you aren't caught on camera somewhere along the way, and if you set up your own merchant service you have to link a bank account which requires all sorts of personal verification to have. The only thing I can imagine getting away with is virtual micro transactions for your video games and such IF you have a good proxy set up. Can someone explain how they get away with it?
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Here in India, Central Banking Authority - Reserve bank of India, has made it mandatory for all new cards to be chip enabled. Further, for all physical transactions you have to enter PIN and for all electronic transactions you have to enter password or OTP. Additionally, my credit card issuing bank also sends me a message after each transaction no matter how small. They also call me up and check if I do any big transaction. Not sure why it's not the same everywhere!? Such measure leave little room for skimmers.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: I'll give it my best shot.

Skimmers are a hackish implementation of the same technology that ATMs use. When you use your card at an ATM, it "reads" your card's magnetic strip. That magnetic strip contains information which links it back to a particular account (whether that be a checking account, credit card account, whatever).

Skimmers will also "read" the data off your magnetic strip, but instead store that information on a chip. That chip, which is later collected, can then be used to flash blank cards with your information. So now they can essentially replicate your credit card as many times as they want. Those cards then function exactly as yours would at a physical machine.

Think of it in the same way that hotels produce your room card. They have a stack of blanks which, when swiped, are programmed to open your door and your door only. Locked out? No problem, they can reproduce another one on the spot.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: I'm late but I hope this helps.

The magnetic strip on the back of the card is a sequence of lines that each is either more conductive or is more magnetic (I can't remember which, but think of the strip kind of like 1's and 0's with more conductive and less conductive).

That's all the magnetic strip is. That code contains the card information. When you swipe your card, the reader reads the information.

So a credit card skimmer reads the info and saves it but still allows the transaction to complete as normal so that you don't notice something happened.

Now they have your info saved. 

They can then use a machine to print a magnetic strip onto a new credit card that is identical to your credit card, and they can go shopping with it.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: There was a documentary on netfix that followed criminals. One of them was a credit card fraud guy. He had a connection, a bartender who used a skimmer to collect numbers, who sold him the data. He then buys a bunch of the visa gift cards and removes the printed on numbers. He then had a device that loads the stolen number onto the blank visa gift card. He then used a embossing machine to emboss the stolen number onto the card, so it looks like a visa credit card. 
in short he copy stolen numbers onto a visa gift card and emboss it to make it look legit. 
In the episode he took the copied card to BestBuy and bought a ipad which he posted and sold on craigslist the same day.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Because banks will try to blame the customer when money is taken from their credit card.

The theory is very similiar to how stores will refuse to replace/refund items under warranty, and insurance companies turn down 100% of claims at the first stage.

The hope is that a percentage of people just 'give up' and go away.

In the stolen card scenario, the bank levies a withdrawal fee as well as the amounts on the card, and if there are enough people who don't quit the bank in disgust and aren't able/willing to take their complaint higher, the bank can make a profit on the scam.

All the major high-street banks in the UK make 10s to 100s of millions a year from stolen card transactions.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: The quickest and easiest way people make money from using skimmers is by selling the collected information to other people. 

They'll collect a list of names, card numbers, and PINs, then sell it to someone else who has the ability to use it for a few hundred dollars. 

That person can then clone the cards or use the info online, make a bunch of purchases, then sell the bought items for cash.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: the ELI5 version:  
  
People make money on skimmers by either selling the credit card information they skim online. The Dark Web and IRC channels have all sorts of places where you can buy stolen credit card information.
  
Enterprising thief's skim your CC information, and then run that information through a program which copies your CC information on a blank CC, effectively cloning your CC.
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: Go on a deep web market and there's literally novels of literature these people make and sell with Bitcoin. Getting the card is one thing.. The skill is in laundering the stolen money without getting caught
question: How do people make/steal money using credit card skimmers?I mean walk me through it because clearly I am missing something here. answer: They sell the stolen credit card numbers for money.
Those who buy credit card numbers, buy stuff with your credit card.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: It was a slow build based on a large number of innovations that had to happen in sequence.

Perhaps most important were an *agricultural surplus* (improvements in farming productivity that meant not everyone had to raise food) and the *renaissance* (a growing cultural belief that knowledge was valuable, and that humans rather than only God could improve life on Earth).
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: It's the printing press.  That's the reason.  I think the printing press is more responsible than any other single cause.  Gutenberg was 1440, but remember it took time for the devices to actually be used for more than religious propaganda.

The printing press allowed for accurate, large scale reproduction of knowledge.  Printed words don't change with people's memories, and with presses, they can be distributed to a large number of people.  This is what allowed knowledge to be distributed and stored past individual people's lifetimes.

In addition, now that there was a large pool of knowledge in many people's hands, it would have been obvious that the knowledge was _conflicting_.  One person said one thing, another another, about the same physical process.  This is where the scientific method came from - you needed a formal way to determine who was right.  

Once you had the scientific method plus printing press, the current age was more or less inevitable.  Printing press is a method that allows for an ever growing pool of knowledge to be stored.  Scientific method acts like a slow filter, winnowing out bad knowledge in favor of good.  

If you think about it, high density computers are a super-printing press.  All the books ever written will almost fit on your tablet, you can send information around instantly, etc.  And the growing age of artificial intelligence is going to let us fix the other problems - there's too much accurate, scientific information for any one human to know all or even most of it, and we can't store the personalities of our best engineers so their skills are lost when they die.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Although it is hard to qualify progress, it very well could have been exponential the whole time.

[This](_URL_0_) is an exponential function.  You notice the beginning of the curve is pretty flat, not a lot of apparent change until you get towards the end.  

Exponential doesn't just mean fast growth.  It means very fast growth when the values are large, and slower growth when they are small.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: The short version of the answer is that technological, academic, and economic progress were tepid at best during the dark ages. [Edit: I use the term 'dark ages' here lightly, 400-~1400 AD represented a seismic shift in philosophy that turned toward superstition rather than empirical knowledge. This started changing around perhaps 1000 or 1100 or so; but as with all history, transitions between epochs are generally not neat and tidy. The term is not great, but it's what I've got].  It was not until after the protestant reformation firmly took hold and had a couple generations of history behind it that enough of the percentage of Europe's population felt confident enough being "revolutionary" to seed the mindsets that ultimately led to the industrial revolution.

The Greeks and Romans made good progress in terms of art, mathematics, science, and technology and may have made the jump to an industrial society (or at least birthed a society that did this). By about 300 AD or so they had developed geometery--the same that we learn in high school today, in fact; as well as most trigonometry that we understand today. They had toy steam engines and (analog) vending machines that would do tricks (sort of like those fortune teller boxes from last century). We aren't talking about food dispensing here, more like blessings from the temple god/goddess sort of thing. They had small steam engines, though they never made the leap from "amusing gimmick" to "useful machine". The machinists and tinkerers were playing around with geared wheels. They were working on problems like surveying, architecture, canals, and what we might loosely call railroads. [This guy, Hero, is perhaps the most well known](_URL_3_) but there were a good many others doing similar things in the region.

The Dark Ages are most often marked as beginning with the abolition of Paganism by the rising Holy Roman Church, most notably with the destruction of the Library of Alexandria under Bishop Cyril. [Hypatia](_URL_3_) is the character to watch there. For various reasons she was seen as a political enemy of Cyril. She was an academic and had a wide following in the area, and was pagan. She was a perfect target for someone with authority who claimed the church as a backer, and who adopted from (other) pagans the idea that the natural world is dirty and dangerous and to be expelled. That mysticism and withdrawal from study of the empirical was the way to salvation.

These ideas were widespread in the church at the time, and with Rome's political power waning it was less and less likely to find practical support for academia, for classical arts, music, math, etc. The church very much accepted the idea that came to signify the middle ages--that the road to holiness involved rejecting empirical study, aesthetic pleasure, fine art, practical trades, and pursuit of knowledge for its own sake. [Edit: yes, the Church did ultimately come to support many academic and art personalities, though those were almost exclusively after the Rennaisance had started. At the onset of the Church's rise to power these factors were heavily discouraged].

There were several times in the ensuing 1200 or so years where it appeared the west was on the cusp of breaking out of this mold, but until the protestant reformation made it possible to foment ideological revolt we lapsed back to the veil of mysticism each time. That is not to say protestant denominations embraced academia or capitalism, indeed many such religious doctrines were just as oppressive of these things as the Catholic Church. But the seeds of freedom of thought had taken root, and the benefits the reformation built into society benefited the intellectuals and the tinkerers just as much as they did the religious. This took off in the late 1400s, and really hit its stride in the early 1600s (Columbus was a 2nd gen product of the initial stages of this process, the American colonies a product of its peaking; 1492-1670ish or roughly the time from the American Civil War to today).

The rise of capitalism as a form of economy allowed ideas and innovations to flourish. If an inventor did not or could not take advantage of something, someone else was sure to see their gadget or discovery and find a way to exploit it. Unintended consequences spilled over into academia, like Galileo using a spyglass to study the heavens instead of terrestrial distances. Even though Italy and the church did not like these discoveries, they were celebrated elsewhere. The fragmentation of political vs. religious power vs. economic power had a significant role in this, though the threads are difficult to separate.

With that fragmentation of political vs. religious power came the capacity for whole societies to evolve with wildly differing variables, some for better, some for worse; most up and down. New economic practices could be tested, new gadgets and philosophies could be fought over without fear of political discipline (at least in some areas). In order to for one power to keep up with another it now became necessary to fund innovation, and not simply wait for someone in their workshop to fiddle around and stumble across something curious--this is where the rise of the great artists and inventors came from. A lord or a state would finance individuals who had a propensity for art or invention (Leonardo de Vinci was one such). This was a distinct break from earlier times in the dark ages where superstition and mysticism and illiteracy combined to keep populations in a quite literal intellectual darkness. Copernicus and da Vinci and others arguably used references from the earlier Classical personalities to jump start their ideas. They picked up where the much earlier generations had left off when Cyril (well, the Church really) had interrupted.

Today, in what we might call 'late stage capitalism', a lot of people are talking about changing economic structures; and that is a conversation worth having. But in its earlier stages capitalism was almost inarguably responsible for the wild success in technologies, philosophies, political, artistic, and intellectual changes that gave rise to the Renaissance (and the subsequent industrial and political revolutions).

One last note--India, China, and many Arab nations did not lose the maths or academics during the Dark Ages. If anything, they gained as many of the individuals fleeing the onset of the Dark Ages in Europe and the near-East ended up in one of these areas; and the early European voyages of discovery brought back to western shores the long-descended notes and knowledge of these people.

These empires did make some use of these discoveries, and indeed introduced many of their own discoveries to the world. Gunpowder, the compass, paper, movable type, and others. For whatever reason, however, they never made the jump to industry. Like the Classical Greeks and Romans, these things remained the purview of the wealthy or the powerful. Or when they were available to the masses, these were simply a garnish on daily life. Why that philosophical shift never occurred I do not know. They certainly had all the materials and knowledge and yet the shift to an industrial approach did not happen until it was instigated by Europeans.

It could be argued that the Chinese, at least, had a mini-dark ages. They set a fleet off to explore the world in the early 1400s (1421, I think); but while they were gone the political powers underwent a seismic shift and upon their return the fleet was mothballed and the empire's interests were turned inward, the outside world was something to be avoided. Would China have made the shift 200 years before the West? [A very fluff piece on the topic](_URL_3_).

Who knows. What I do know is that as we construct the next evolution of economics and politics in society, we would be wise to consider the long arcs of history and learn from the efforts of those who came before us.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: This is a huge question in many areas of social science and it seems far from being resolved.

Some just look at the pure technology as driving its own growth, others look to changes in social, economic, and governance structures, others look at simple population size and how that relates to trade and the exchange of ideas.

The cause likely has multiple interacting factors and we don't know what alternate possibilities exist. The best answer is that something happened and people developed a few ideas which worked very well and enabled more people to come up with more ideas. Good ideas seem obvious in retrospect and it causes us to discount how difficult they can be to develop.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Your mistakes are believing that there is some rate at which progress happens, and that all of humanity is "progressing" at the same rate. Asking why certain innovations didn't happen earlier is like asking why an asteroid hasn't wiped out humanity. Because it hasn't. 

Progress doesn't happen in a straight line. It's happenstance, like evolution. Biological evolution isn't a series of adaptations that occur in order to get better, they just occur. These changes aren't upwards, they're lateral. Our ego just needs to see them in some sort of meaningful pattern. 

Also, powerful technologies or techniques are often times hidden away from enemies, rather than shared. Then you have the case of the most powerful institutions (generally, yes some kings wanted intelligent subjects) in the western world that were steadfastly anti-intellectual for centuries. On top of that, the way we are taught about world history in the west makes it seem like every important event happened in Western Europe. After Rome fell and the west crumbled, Muslims and Chinese were doing just fine and had all sorts of scientific innovation going on. The people in the west were trying to find a pot to piss in until the 12th century. 

So, fundamentally this is a flawed question. The question isn't why didn't certain achievements (if that's what they are) happen sooner, it's why did they happen at all?
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: A decline in the use of slaves was also important. A Greek inventor, Hero of Alexandria, made the first steam engine about 2000 years ago but no one gave a shit cause slaves were cheaper.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Two things, agricultural surpluses to support a rapid increase in people. And second, the steam engine to move away from muscle powered machinery.

The steam engine's application in such a way as to actually be useful was very much dependent on geography. It needed not just coal, but also a reason to use it. Thus we have England ushering in the industrial era. They had coal, but it was in mines that would often get very wet and would sometimes flood. Thus the steam engine used some of the coal being mined to power the engine would would then power a pump to keep the mines dry allowing for more coal to be dug up, creating a positive feedback loop, and setting off the industrial revolution.

The reason why England was the first place as opposed to China which had significantly more coal, is because China's coal was much easier to get (the mines didn't flood), thus not necessitating additional inventions to make mining easier. And since early steam engine were so cumbersome and had to be close to their source of fuel, it really did come down to geography. The industrial revolution could only have started in areas with coal mines that needed simple mechanical assistance to make the operation more efficient.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: In my opinion the exponential progress is due to how we value human life and all that it brings. The more we value human life the less we're able to exploit them as a work force. During ancient times we probably could've had some sort of industrialisation but, simply put, there was no need for it. No one needed to invent better agricultural tools or mechanize work because slaves were naturally below their masters. 

During the dark ages we had serfs doing work. This also meant that there was no incentive for anyone to invest in tools or mechanization. It wasn't until the enlightenment that we actually started viewing humans as having rights. Rights meant that the serfs wanted to own stuff and maybe even have a coin or two of their own. Thus there was an incentive to invest in inventions. Humans have always invented what they need, and until the enlightenment not much was needed because the elite didn't have to pay for labour.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: One of my favorite theories, which is talked about in "[Guns, Germs, and Steel](_URL_4_)" is that *geography* has a lot to do with advancement in technology.

In Europe, the climate is mild and great for agriculture without being overly prone to disaster. However, there is a lot of coastline and little area for population to spread out. This meant that populations were more likely to concentrate in cities and cities were larger than in other parts of the world. That concentration created a unique set of problems/sollutions that were the catalyst for the industrial revolution.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: The last few chapters of "Sapiens" by Yuval Noah Harari deals with this question.
It was a combination of law and order (trust in the state) and capitalism (trust in the future) that propelled the progress exponentially.
Before the modern economy was introduced, growth was slow and so progress was also slow.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Short answer.... the printing press.

IMHO the printing press was the single greatest invention of mankind.....so far.  It allowed knowledge, and ideas, to outlive their originators, and form a foundation for others to build upon.  No one person made the industrial revolution happen.  If the printing press would have been invented a hundred years earlier, the industrial revolution might have occurred a hundred years earlier, and the world would be a completely different place.

The industrial revolution was the culmination of hundreds of years of compiled knowledge.  If you ever get a chance, watch the series "Connections" from the BBC.  It is a wonderful program that illustrates how previous discoveries are connected to the modern inventions we enjoy.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: About a hundred years ago modern medicine and the discovery of microscopic bacteria as a cause of illness. With modern medicine and an understanding of how to treat people came population growth. While the common assumptions with population growth is that it is bad (more mouths to feed, increased consumption), it's actually a good thing (more engineers, scientists, etc.). Having more people around means more people can specialize their skill sets and the economy as a whole can grow. The population largely stayed consistent for hundreds of years. Once modern medicine -and with it the expanded population- came so did rapid industrial progress.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: My theory is that the level of technology a society can produce is a factor of interconnected population size plus automation. For example, after the fall of Rome (and a reduction in the size of an interconnected economy) the level of technology produced in Europe temporarily regressed. 

The Industrial Revolution roughly coincides with the development of worldwide sea trade routes. (In other words, a sea trades routes connected a larger population economically.) 

If you wonder why the number of people exchanging trade in an interconnected global economy should matter, then look up Ricardo's theorem of Comparative Advantage.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Let us assume, there is another revolution that is going to take place in the year 2217.
If people might have thought why that revolution didn't occur in 2017, what would be your answer?
Revolution is not something which can happen just like that.
It takes atleast a few billion people to follow a particular trend.
We know that an Electro magnetic wave can be used to transport messages. 2000 years back, they didn't.
The same with 2017 compared with 2217.
Also, there are many instances in history where scientists ruled out theories which doesn't have practical proofs.
To prove something practically, that era of discovery might not have the proper equipment.
Take Einstein for example, he assumed if we travelled at a speed of light. No one can travel at that speed now. So people were skeptical about his theory only until Sir Arthur Eddington proved it otherwise.
[Read here more about skepticism against Einstein](_URL_5_) 
E: spellings
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: You're asking for an ELI5 of the history of civilization. All these people claiming to give definitive answers in 500 words are fooling themselves.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Everything plays off each other. As one thing increases, then another can sometimes bump up. And that causes another thing to increase. Which can go all the way back again and cause the cycle to repeat. So to talk about a specific cause is more or less going to be wrong.

Having said that, here are four things that really really helped the overall process:

1) the ability to Read

* having books available to everyone especially non-rich, non-noble smart people

* giving people the ability to read

2) Advances in Mathematics  &  Physics

* the basic ability to do calculations, e.g. Napier's Bones (logarithms)

* the basic ability to do calculations correctly

* basic fundamental math: calculus. the coordinate system. complex numbers. Negative numbers. Zero. Reals. etc. etc.

* understanding of heat and eventually of electricity and magnetism.

* understanding of forces, especially in mechanical systems

3) Advances in basic technology

* the ability to manufacture things more precisely which allowed tools to be made more precisely to manufacture things more precisely, and round it goes

* the huge effort of fleshing out of mathematical and scientific understanding into day-to-day solutions to engineering problems

4) Population

* more people means more smart people

* more smart people means more really smart people

* more really smart people means more very insightful people collaborating on more complicated problems

* solutions to complicated problems spread through out the world, eventually reaching day to day problems
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Religion.  It was a very bad idea for a very long time to suggest any idea that could possibly go against the teachings of the church.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Moores law applies to all technologies. Once you makes something easier it is easier to devise improvements.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: I am not an expert on the question but I'll give you my opinion. I think our progress is exponential since the beginning of the 20th century because of several things that are intertwined :

1) we have accumulated a lot of knowledge in the same spot so we can draw multiple conclusions from them. During the Renaissance, people "re"-discovered ancient knowledge which was then added to the knowledge people already had. 
It is important for humans to be able to pass knowledge from generation to generation because one life isn't long enough to discover everything.
The possibility of passing so much knowledge hasn't been possible until the invention of writing (that took a while). And then again, it's not until the Renaissance that "scientists" and philosopher began corresponding and sharing. (Greek philosophers also did but we lost a good deal of their work)
With the invention of publishing articles, scientists were then able to share their discoveries to the entire world. Currently articles are still published and they are a great way to share knowledge.

When you have access to all that's already been discovered, it is easier to discover new things, instead of rediscovering something that has already been discovered a thousand times (if you get what I mean).

2) people need to get the motivation.
Humans invent what they need. If they are in a society where finding shelter and food occupies 90% of their time, they won't be able to discover a new theory on whatever. They need to be in some sort of comfortable situation to do so. 
So they need to be in a civilisation that is at peace (mostly), is sedentary, has means of providing food easily (organized agriculture) and can build good homes. Then when the human mind doesn't have to think about basic needs, it can take care of other things.

But if you look at our history, we mostly had civilisation that didn't share much knowledge (cf point 1) and disappeared without giving their knowledge to other civilization. If you look at the Roman Empire, knowledge was practically lost because of the wars at the end of the empire. So there hasn't been any civilisation that lasted long enough without war to build enough knowledge or to pass it on.

It's just at the Renaissance that ancient knowledge was rediscovered in Alexandria and added to knowledge that was discovered in between, it was favorable to find other things.

3) in the last centuries people were more supported to make discoveries. Basically people could study, they have had less and less problems with religion and mentalities changed. For example during the 18th century, kings and stuff would support scientist in their study.

4) I think to have the explosion of knowledge we currently know, you need a basic amount of knowledge that takes a loooooong time to acquire (plus you need point 1  &  2).

Conclusion : I think there is a lot of hazard and lucky circumstances to the level of knowledge we currently have.
I think it's not like eventually, it's "fate", it was sure we would have that much knowledge. I think it's pretty much random and just good circonstances.

PS : I don't really buy in the "we have a nice climate" theory because during the 18th century, there was a "mini" cold age that caused a lot of famine... so it's not like the climate has always been nice to us. Plus the climate is different on all the continents so...
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: I'm late to the party here but I hope some people view this, I'm an economics graduate who took a lot of economics history coursework discussing exactly this.

The reason is because people didnt need to exploit fossil fuels, they didnt have any purpose.

Oil in Iraq was known and easily accessed, used for low quality pamps or lubrication. But why use it? It needs to be refined, and refining oil is a hugh energy process that requires lots of coal.

Coal is not so easily accessed. In Wales and Pennsylvania, coal was near the surface of soil. But why use coal? People might use it to burn, but the amount you could mine given the effort of mining was economically unfeasible. Youd much more efficiently chop wood.

So what happened to change this? Water mills, really. Which needed the invention of the loom to become worthwhile.

So, the loom is invented and advanced which allowed one person to make much more clothing than knitting or sewing. In order to process enough linen and cotton, British people (mostly) used energy from running rivers to power machinery that helped expedite processing.

Why British? Because British people lived in an area that had streams and had mountains or hills. It needs to be hilly because a water mill prefers fast moving water -- water that goes downhill.

As these textile industries grow, the concept of using water to power machines becomes refined. The mechanisms for transferring an energy source into a functional machine started getting engineered over one or two hundred years.

In other word, engines. 

The development of these engines created the purpose for coal. Without water mills, there was no engine, and without engines, theres no economic purpose for 
Coal. Without coal, you cant refine oil.

By using coal to burn water, and using the steam to turn the engine (instead of needing a river to turn the engine), larger and more factories could be built. This was the industrial revolution.

Oil arose because of kerosene. Lamps for a period were powered by whale blubber, which burned bright and whitd. However, as whale populations sharply declined, whale oil became too expensive to be a viable energy source. Kerosene, made from oil, became attractive.

Oil refining requires high temperatures, and thus required large amounts of coal. The by products of kerosene refining were incredibly cheap, since they were mostly seen as waste. This allowed other industries to find them as an excellent enetgy source where the could be appropriately used. Gasoline, jet fuel, petroleum jelly, and so on all entered the market to varying degrees.

With energy now made cheap, human labor could be supplemented with machinery, allowing people to make so much more with so much less. Steel was developed, which allowed the invention of the steel plow, which allowed hard soil areas to be farmed. 

The breadbasket of the united states opened up, where previously it had been impossible to farm. People used their steel plows to break the hard soils in nebraska, kansas, oklahoma, and the dakotas. Food prices fell. People could eat cheaply. Soon, fertilizers and tractors were developed. With such effective machinery, one man could farm so much more land, allowing labor prices to plummet. Cities grew huge with displaced farmers, factories exploded with machinery and cheap labor.

And the rest is history.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Luck and numerous factors coming to critical mass, I'd think.

- increased dissemination of ideas through printing press

- proliferation of lending practices and future capital generation (prohibited Christian or Islamic doctrine but many made workarounds in the early modern period)

- Mercantilist empires laying the ground work for powerful corporations (all which may be chalked up to a desire for "God, gold, and glory" but also further obstacles to trade in India/China and improvements in sailing tech made Europeans sail out)

- Break down of feudalism combined with efficient land usage and newly developed agricultural practices

- relevant natural resources and eventually the taking of the resources from elsewhere

- displaced rural peoples moving to urbanized or urbanizing areas for work

- dropping death rates as a result of greater medical knowledge and food access while birth rates remain high

- evolving textile industries as examples of wholesale mechanization that spreads to other industrial areas

- less stigma attached to the acquisition of wealth and therefore the merchant class as well

- development of the (middle class) consumer and the collapse of traditional social hierarchies (feudalism, old money vs new money, etc.)

Eventually, imperialism lays the ground work for global capitalism which helps to move things where they "need" to be. 

Mercantilist powers were among the nations that developed the strongest navies and thus ensured they would also become those with empires at the forefront of controlling the movement of resources and people.

Breakdown of feudalism (which was a redistribution oriented economy) got things moving. It could be argued that other places refusal or lack of desire to adopt new practices or technology meant that the Ottoman Empire or China simply fell behind until their position of power was reversed.

And of course, this brief summation of things makes a lot of assumptions and erases the nuance and detail wit respect to people's lives and the actual distribution of population and how many people were actually "experiencing" the so-called industrial revolution.

---

Progress is always being made in many different fields and places. With respect to the last several centuries, the movement of capital and new ways of appraising or interrogating the natural world (I.e. The scientific method) rather than teleological explanations (I.e. Things are the way they are because that's their purpose) of the status quo was pumping gas in a much more efficient engine.

With respect to ideology or society's structure, sometimes it's cyclical and undermines the presumptuous notion that all progress is inherently good.

However, technological progress does plateau, during which time a breakthrough is needed. After a breakthrough, a lot of things happen and are invented or discovered until it becomes difficult to make huge differences to the existing body of knowledge. But then you get an Einstein or a Chomsky and their constituent fields experience a huge paradigm shift which levels everyone's assumptions and challenges them to reconstruct the world or opens the way for possibilities never conceived or entertained.

In this respect, meaningful exchange of capital is the means by which I think enough spaghetti is thrown at the wall to make developments or to mobilize things or people to where they need or want to be to get stuff done. 

My brain hurts.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: This is the best answer I could find from r/askhistorians -- you should consider cross-posting there as well. Answering "Why didn't Rome, Greece, or other ancient societies industrialize?", u/DeSoulis writes:

 > Industrialization is a pretty complicated process and here are a few reasons:

 > 1) Absolute technological level, despite the fact that people love talking about the ancient steam engine the steam engine was not nearly as decisive in industrialization as often thought. Improvements and innovation in machinery during the late medieval era played a huge part in industrialization. The first textile weaving machines for instance were based off of the mechanical clock which was invented during the Middle Ages. People often have a mistaken view, perpetuated by the science vs religion debate, that the Medieval period was a dark age when in reality it was in many ways much more innovative than the Classical era.

 > 2) The Commercial revolution: industrialization was not just based on technology, but on easily obtainable capital to fund starting industries and inventors. As well as a financial and trade system which can sustain demand for products produced by industries. The commercial revolution of the 13th-18th century produced an environment conductive to that.

 > 3) Agricultural surplus: To industrialize, you need a critical mass of non-food producing workers in cities and cottage industries. Agricultural productivity is necessary to produce food to sustain this population. Several waves of Medieval agricultural revolution and the addition of agricultural land during colonialism fueled the production of surplus foodstuff for industrialization.

 > 1-3 was simply not present during the classical era in the Mediterranean because it has not developed those critical components yet. Basically people have a tendency of assuming "well James Watt invented the steam engine, ergo industrial revolution" while in reality you can easily argue the Industrial revolution was the culmination of 2000 years of human development.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: First and foremost, you need to be able to produce the machinery to make the goods you want at the size, scale, and materials you need. Not an easy task.

Then you need an actual supply and demand that can keep up with production. Its no mistake that the industrial revolution started with cloth making, work that had previously required contracting out to massive amounts of households comprising the winter work of most families in England.

You also need a well educated middle class and upper class who you can pull skilled labor from. In the past, even in civilizations and nations famous for their intelligence and literacy, the actual rates of literacy often were hard pressed to get above 1.5 % of the population.

Contrary to popular belief, it was not steam power that lead to the industrial revolution as the initial source of power for factories were water wheels with steam engines being developed because of needs in the industrial revolution.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Any of the answers that attempt to give definitive proof or are trying to tie progress to one event are simply wrong. This is probably one of the most vexing intellectual problems in modern times because, simply put, no one really knows. At least no one would know how to recreate the progress we've seen. 

I think the top answer said printing press -- if that's really the reason then why haven't all countries who have access to printing risen to the standard of living of western countries? 

This is probably a bad question for ELI5 since you're gunna get a lot of people who have knowledge of history but don't have respect for the true intricacies of economic, political and geographic effects on how our world got to be how it is. 

The term to search for your quest of knowledge is the Great Divergence. One of the newer theories is called the California School of thought.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Just to add to the other comments here, and take my contribution with a pinch of salt as I'm by no means an expert, but I have heard it attributed in part to the development of the ability to work glass. Specifically, before the ability to mould or grind lenses for use in telescopes and _more importantly_ microscopes, many of the discoveries that made the industrial revolution and the renaissance possible would not have been made.

EDIT: I've been trying to find any support for my comment online and I'm struggling. The closest I've come is in this blog post about magic: _URL_6_ Almost exactly as I understood the argument about glass, the writer asserts that high quality porcelain prevented the Chinese from discovering glass, which hindered their scientific progress later than the Middle Ages.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Most of the progress is made by really smart people (1 or 2% of the population) working hard at discovering how our universe works. Smart people need support, access to information and one another, tolerance and interest from the ruling class. The more smart people exchanging ideas you have, with as much resources, freedom and support as possible, the faster you advance. Only in a few moments of history we had this kind of arrangement, so we didnt do much progress. Now we have massive access to knowledge, great communications and everybody gets and education, so we are making progress exponentially and as the billons of poor people in places like India and China get an opportunity to contribute, it will get much faster.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: I think the standout is Francis Bacon's revision of scientific method in 1620. Read Novum Organum. To my mind, this critical idea (the development of method and the use of experiment to make "observable" phenomena) transformed all other fields of inquiry.  Research, in the modern sense, became a systemic and "objective" endeavour.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: As someone that went to college for history, I do chafe under the idea of "progress" and that certain areas of the world are more progressive and that is an objective better thing. That disclaimer aside, to address your point:

The reason that the Renaissance actually was a bit late in occurring. Due to a variety of reasons, it should have begun earlier than it actually did. One of the main drivers of the Renaissance was access to ancient Greek writings that were made possible during the 1200s in the Byzantine (Roman) Empire. There the early ideas of humanism were in full swing and critically, Greeks went to Italy with Plato, Socrates, and other greats of Greece. With these in hand, early humanists translated these documents from ancient Greek into Italian or Latin and taught others how to read ancient Greek. At this point, the forerunners of the Renaissance seemed to be onto something but then everything changed when the Black Death struck in 1350. (It hit in waves and at various times over a decade but we care about 1350 and its affect on Italy and the rest of Europe.)

The Black Death was amazing, in a macabre, huh that's interesting sort of way. The Black Death killed a lot of people, which again, does not seem like something that would cause people to become great artists or writers. One would imagine that people would not have time for such things since everyone was getting sick and dying and you would be correct about such matters. However, people often forget that the disease enjoyed killing everyone, regardless of merit, craft, or wealth and this is super important. 

In today's economy, if you want to buy something, you swipe a credit card and boom, Amazon delivers you seasons 1-5 of Friends in Polish even thought you only speak English. Super. Your money is stored online, its really a "digital currency" in that you most likely do not have a tangible dragon-like hoard that you can sleep on. In 1350 though, if you died as a rich merchant or noble, you could literally placed yourself on a pile of gold that would make Smaug jealous. Why is this important? Gold does not go anywhere- you do not need Biblo and Thorin to come and get that money to put it back into circulation. You just need a really fucking cool crows mask or a whip. So that means that the amount of money is the same but the amount of people with that money is far, far lower.

Why else is this important? Well, if you are a poor farmer, whelp, time to go your rich nobleman's house where everyone died and buy things super cheap at auction or borrow it with no intention of returning. Congrats, you are learning fast Jethro Smaug. While this temporary boom might seem great, you could make even more money if you have something that no one else has- a life. Or a mill. Preferably both.  How do you make bread if the miller is dead? How do you make fat stacks if you are the only miller in town and all those jerk millers just kicked the bucket? Supply (you milling that bread like a boss) and demand (poor peasants want to eat or something) means that you are a happy guy for a couple of reasons:

1) You are the only game in town, you deserve this, good for you.

2) You have more demand than ever, whoop! Now you can work dawn til dusk and never have to stop that mill, super cool.

3) Wait, you have 2 people show up that both want their shit milled but you only have time for 1...they both say they will pay you the same amount. Who do you choose? Wait, did that guy offer a little extra because he needs it now? Whoa, dude, did he get shot down by the other guy that raised his offer higher than that. This might be cool...

4)???

5) Turns out that people want to eat food, the knights are broke af (long story, basically they were crap at investing and by the Reformation they were a shell of their former power, especially in Germany) and they cannot do fuck all with your gains and now you are the scary guy in town and you have 2 giant fucking rocks that turn on each other and crush seeds. Go team!

So we need to remember that if you had something to supply, especially in a field where there could be massive distributions if just a few people die (the miller in this case), people could afford to pay more because the same amount of coins and other valuables were around, but there was less people around ie some people saw a pay raise.  Other super important things at the time include the horse collar allowing for a massive farm production rise, the rise of humanism that I only quickly touched on, the rise of people being able to negotiate wages through positions of experience and expertise and not through hereditary power. So yea, I can expand on this more if anyone wants but I have a quiz to take and I really need to stop procrastinating.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: This is an [exponential curve](_URL_7_), notice how nothing happens at the start. It's in the very nature of exponential growth that you don't even notice it's happening at the start. So it's not like it wasn't happening before, it just takes time before it goes boom.

As for why it took so long, don't think in terms of innovation and inventions, think about all the infrastructure. You don't just need to invent a steam machine, you need to invent all the infrastructure to be able to build it, all the tools, all the materials, the roads to transports the goods, the cities to bring enough people close enough to accomplish it, enough food for everybody and all that. You even need to create enough people before you can start building modern civilisation.

You also have to take economy of scale into account, a lot of modern inventions only can exist because we build thousands or millions of them. You might be able to replicate some of them a thousand years ago, but they would be prohibitively expensive and you'd be much better of by using more primitive technology that can get the job done at an affordable cost.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: This won't be the most educated or specific answer, so it might be removed, but I don't believe you're going to get an answer that is going to satisfy your curiosity. All of the answers are explaining *why* the explosion of technology took place (i.e. what specific events happened in which order, and what specific cultural or technological events laid the groundwork for further advancements), but it seems what you're really asking is, "Why did it take so long?"

And I don't think you're going to get an answer for that, because we just don't know. We can point to each specific milestone, and ask why it happened when it did, and the answer will usually be either "we had to wait for *x* to happen" (in which case, you could keep recursively asking the same question) or "society needed sufficient time to develop an interest in *y*", and we don't really have a rock solid explanation for why cultural changes take as long as they do.

It's like asking "Why didn't I think of this sooner?"

There's no real answer to that. You didn't think of it sooner because you just didn't.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Your question is essentially "why did things happen the way that they did?" so the answer is "because of everything that happened." You basically need a synopsis of all of history. 

Narrow the scope to "why wasn't dinner ready 30 minutes earlier?" 

Well I had to preheat the oven and prep the vegetables. I would have done that at 6 pm but first I had to stop by the store on the way home so instead I did it at 6:30. And all of that was 15 minutes later because I got stuck behind a train on the way home, which happened because I stayed to help my co-worker for 5 minutes....etc....etc....etc...

Each step of societal/technological advancement happened when it did because everything leading up to it had to happen first. And that stuff couldn't happen until the stuff leading up to IT happened first. All the way back through time. It's a super vague and obvious answer, but that's the general answer to such a vague and broad question unless you want to read every history book ever made.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Others on this thread are much better experts but scrolling down I may have skipped over someone pointing out that simply the scientific method wasn't really a "thing" totally till sometime around 17th century. Dating back to Greek philosophers a branch that evolved was, "natural philosophers" and the idea of observing natural world  (without religous dogmas or philosophical obfuscations) as the sole root of knowledge more or less till the rennasaince mainly stayed dormant. Isolating physical phenomenas to be studied as science does essentially and being able to devise clever mechanisms i.e. machines made what's necessary to propel large scale production facilities known as factories. And just like how it was necessary to take special care in observation of natural *life* to form agriculture, it took special observation of the natural *world* to kick off the industrial revolution.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Many people are talking about what caused the exponential growth, but I think OP wants to know why humanity didn't achieve it earlier.

In my opinion, wars. More specifically people eradicating other culture and it's records.

For example, burning of the great library of Alexandria. It said to be loss of many original mathematics, physics, and medicinal scriptures. Some sources suggest that it wasn't much of a loss, but due to its central location between great civilizations, I believe it had to have stored more than other libraries.

Similarly, The Hittites were known for their iron working during the bronze age. They rapidly grew with their weapon superiority, but when the empire fell, the secret to their iron working was also lost.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: The proximate answer is developments in metallurgy.  You can't build steam engines without metallurgy.  You can't build commercially viable, long lasting, mass produced steam engines without metallurgy that didn't exist until around the time we start seeing commercial viable, long lasting, mass produced steam engines.  By metallurgy I mean both the ability to make sufficiently suitable metals and to cast/forge/stamp/solder them into a suitable shape a very high % of the time.  

There are social and demographic and geological reasons, sure, but the real proximal reason is that it was physically impossible until it suddenly wasn't.  Didn't take long after that point.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: I'm going to guess the discovery of calculus had something to do with it. The extra prediction power helped flesh out a lot of fields of its time. After its discovery in the 1600's and its perfection in the 1700's, the next century shows us Maxwell's equations of electromagnetism, the laws of thermodynamics, the theory of evolution, and other sciences that would later become modern.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Religion and politics.

Once you remove both powerhouses and give it all to the people they will do what they can do pursue happiness through financial stability. 

Stop fighting with other cultures and killing each other and know that free trade, cooperation always makes everyone much richer.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: The short answer is the discovery and subsequent importation of coffee and tea gave Europe an alternative daily beverage to what had been historically wine and beer. 

I highly recommend the book, "A History of the World in Six Glasses".
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: The ancien regime, in cahoots with the Catholic church, together blocked all scientific progress, monopolized learning and perpetuated feudalism for a thousand years - entirely by design. 

We're rapidly heading back that way - entirely by design.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: We innovate exponentially. We make tools. Those tools make creating new tools easier. Like I make a powerful computer, then I can use that powerful computer to calculate how to make an even MORE powerful computer.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: I believe some of why we didn't advance sooner was because of religion. Alot of advances in science were stifled because of the fear religion gives people of intelligence.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: There is no simple answer, beyond profiteering.  Keep things the same and profits high.

No wonderful utopian future of living like the Jetsons.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: There's likely an argument that could be made that the church is somewhat to blame. They were big obstacles to advancement in science
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Because Kings, Dictators, Monarchies, and Religions said Science was an affront to God, all religion is bad.
question: Why didn't the industrial revolution take place a 1000 years ago,Why was our progress so exponential in the last 400 years?[removed] answer: Also religion slows humans down even today. We would probably be much further along in medical research.
question: why do I feel like everything is more quiet in the morning so that I have to turn the volume down from last night.When you have your tv set to a certain volume at night and you wake up and it seems way to loud, it seems weird to me. Edit: front page, thanks guys, shout out to Lars Tim and Mallory for reading this. answer: Your ears are more sensitive because you've been sleeping in what is presumably relatively quiet conditions.  As the day goes on they grow less sensitive because of all the noise they handle on a daily basis.
question: why do I feel like everything is more quiet in the morning so that I have to turn the volume down from last night.When you have your tv set to a certain volume at night and you wake up and it seems way to loud, it seems weird to me. Edit: front page, thanks guys, shout out to Lars Tim and Mallory for reading this. answer: This is explained in a book called [This is Your Brain on Music](_URL_0_). It's been a handful of years since I read it, but I'll explain the best I can.

Vibrating air hits our ear drums which then interpret those vibrations as sound. But too much vibration can damage the relatively delicate ear drum. So if you're exposed to high volumes for an extended period of time, there's something in the ear that expands (maybe it's a muscle, I don't remember) in order to absorb some of that vibration and protect the ear drum. But if you're suddenly blasted with the same volume after sitting in a quiet area for a few hours, it will be totally jarring and even painful.

It works the other way too. In a quiet environment, the same muscle(?) will contract in order to allow *more* vibrations to be absorbed by the ear drum. This allows us to hear subtle noises in quiet places.
question: why do I feel like everything is more quiet in the morning so that I have to turn the volume down from last night.When you have your tv set to a certain volume at night and you wake up and it seems way to loud, it seems weird to me. Edit: front page, thanks guys, shout out to Lars Tim and Mallory for reading this. answer: This is related to neurons' refractory period. When a neuron fires, it needs time to reset the charged particles it has to fire again. If it has to fire again before it has fully recovered, it will fire with less intensity than it previously had. If it has to continually fire, it will gradually decrease in intensity. So as the neurons in your ear fire all day, they fire less to louder noises and you need to turn up the volume on things. After you sleep in a quiet room all night, the neurons "recharge" and quieter things can set them off again.

Edit: Shouldn't have said desensitization.
question: why do I feel like everything is more quiet in the morning so that I have to turn the volume down from last night.When you have your tv set to a certain volume at night and you wake up and it seems way to loud, it seems weird to me. Edit: front page, thanks guys, shout out to Lars Tim and Mallory for reading this. answer: Is it weird that I find the opposite thing happens to me? I flip my TV on in the morning and I can barely hear it.
question: why do I feel like everything is more quiet in the morning so that I have to turn the volume down from last night.When you have your tv set to a certain volume at night and you wake up and it seems way to loud, it seems weird to me. Edit: front page, thanks guys, shout out to Lars Tim and Mallory for reading this. answer: It's just the opposite for me. My tv always seems too quiet in the morning. Interesting.
question: why do I feel like everything is more quiet in the morning so that I have to turn the volume down from last night.When you have your tv set to a certain volume at night and you wake up and it seems way to loud, it seems weird to me. Edit: front page, thanks guys, shout out to Lars Tim and Mallory for reading this. answer: The small hairs in your ear vibrate back and forth which sends signals to your brain all day. By the end of the day some of these hairs lay flat and cannot send signals reducing the amount of sound your ears pick up. As you sleep the hairs are restored and stand back up. When you wake up more sound signals are sent to your brain increasing the volume of sound.
question: why do I feel like everything is more quiet in the morning so that I have to turn the volume down from last night.When you have your tv set to a certain volume at night and you wake up and it seems way to loud, it seems weird to me. Edit: front page, thanks guys, shout out to Lars Tim and Mallory for reading this. answer: The same reason why that beam of sunlight hitting your eyes at 6 a.m. feels like a comic book supervillain is aiming a space-mounted laser at your bedroom.
question: why do I feel like everything is more quiet in the morning so that I have to turn the volume down from last night.When you have your tv set to a certain volume at night and you wake up and it seems way to loud, it seems weird to me. Edit: front page, thanks guys, shout out to Lars Tim and Mallory for reading this. answer: You guys are all awesome, I feel like I'm now an ear doctor, which would be hilarious because I don't know the official title of my own job.
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: Nurse here. Imagine your bladder being a balloon. The balloon gets filled (with urine) and when it's about half way full, stretch receptors in the wall of the balloon starts sending signals to your brain that you need to pee. When you pee the balloon empties itself, and kinda deflates, meaning the stretch receptors are no longer sending signals to the brain about you needing to pee. Bonus info: the body produces on average 1ml/kg body weight urine per hour meaning if you weigh 80 kg you produce about 80 ml of urine per hour. You start to feel the urge to pee when the bladder contains 300-400ml of urine. Bonus info 2: don't keep your bladder full too often, because the stretch receptors in the bladder tissue might get stretched too much, and get damaged, which can lead to incontinence.
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: What about when you're dehydrated?

I've had times where I've been dehydrated, or even when I take some vitamins, where I'll get the urge to pee, but will have a lot less volume than an average urination.

Are there receptors that just say "get this nasty shit out of here"?
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: the nurse has done a pretty good job.

here's me eli18

your bladder has an inner lining and on that inner lining there's a area of tissue that is in the shape of a triangle 2 kidneys feed into the bladder, one hole goes out. these 3 points from a triangle called a trigone. the tissue has mechanoreceptors which detect that theres a high volume - this causes to stretch and tells the brain yeah ok need to pee, then you can voluntarily release and pee (this is your brain override so you dont pee all over the place) .
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: On this topic I have had an really overactive bladder for years. I have had the interstim surgery. Been on multiple types of pills. They performed a cytoscopy. To no avail with everything. I am desperate, it is making like miserable. I literally get up 10 sometimes more a night and sleep in 30-1hr intervals and have to get up to pee. It makes work a nightmare, relationships hard and life hard. Has anybody had an similar experience and do you have anything that worked for you?
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: When drinking alcohol, why does it seem (women especially) "break the seal"? I swear once I start, it seems I have to pee every hour
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: There's a water heater in your gullet, and it gradually fills up with hot urine, building pressure, which is measured by gauges and regulated with pressure relief valves.
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: Since this hasn't been described yet: continence and voiding are dictated by the autonomic nervous system. The bladder has stretch receptors (mechanoreceptors) that give input to the autonomic system. The dominant autonomic tone is a result of the amount of stretch input (little stretch of bladder - >  sympathetic tone, detrusor muscle and internal sphincter are inhibited, bladder is allowed to fill; more stretch - >  parasympathetic tone, detrusor and internal sphincter stimulated, voiding occurs). In infants and some people with spinal cord injury, this is the only control of the bladder. This is refered to as "neurogenic" - voiding occurs upon sufficient stretch. Beginning in childhood, the central nervous system is involved to allow for conscious control of voiding. The urge to pee comes from afferent input to the pontine micturition center.
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: Can you want to go pee from smelling something? Or from a odour? also why is it we want to go pee when we hear running water?
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: I have pararesuis. My body says I need to pee but won't let me until I squat and force it out. (I'm a guy)
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: Our bladder sends us a little signal to our brain saying that we need to go urinate, that's what my 5th grade teacher said!
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: Life long pee'er.   Your bladder fills and the nerves around it feel the increase in the pressure as the organ expands.   This triggers the one response.   If you have nerve damage to this area,  you won't feel the need to pee,  instead it will just happen (like when drunk people pee themselves )
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: When I need to pee and I'm asleep, I start dreaming about bathrooms that have like 30 urinals of all different shapes and sizes.
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: Think of your body as a team. Each part is coordinating to do tasks while you are doing complex actions.   Our brain does so many things behind the scenes as the team leader such as growing our skin, regulating our temperature, and keeping our body safe from viruses and toxins.   Try this breathe in and out.  Next start blinking your eyes.  Notice that your tongue is in your mouth.  The game is still going.
question: How exactly does our body inform us that we need to pee? answer: what happens in the case of urinary tract infections, where you have to urinate every so often when your body dictates you should?
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: They can pick and choose which traits to demonstrate. A typical person has conflicting emotions that influence how they interact with people. The fact that typical people can't "choose" which traits to show at different times means that they often show negative traits to people. A sociopath is able to look at which traits are favorable to other people, and because they lack empathy or the ability to mirror the emotions of others, they can choose exactly how they portray themselves.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Empathy is sort of a double edged sword. The basic idea of it is that you try to read someone else's mind by putting yourself in their place. This is good in that it allows you a fairly good gauge of the moods of people around you and to respond accordingly. The downside is it means you assume they are doing it to you.

They are judging you, CalvinHobb3s. All those eyes locked on you. Casting judgments on you. They're just waiting for you to screw up. 

Feeling anxious? Just a bit, maybe? That's the downside of empathy. You feel you are being watched and you actually care what people think of you.

Sociopaths don't care. They can't. That lack that ability really thrust themselves into the heads of other people and feel what they are feeling. 

Sociopaths may have to work harder to create socially acceptable responses, after all you have to interact with people and it is easier if you get your responses to facilitate that, but at their core they don't really care what your opinion of them is. But you still care what their opinion of you is. You want them to like you. You want everyone to like you, to accept you, to treat you nice.

So this indifference comes across as confidence a strong self esteem. If a sociopath asks a girl to dance and she says "no" he doesn't automatically feel crushed and wonder what's wrong with him. He'll ask the girl next to her. 

Try to figure out how that new girl feels. Use your empathy. The first girl tried to shoot him down and it didn't work. If the second one says yes and starts receiving the attention will that give her a sense of superiority over the first? Irritate the first maybe?  

That's the strength and weakness of empathy all rolled into one right there. We try to make up stories and take wild guesses what is driving people to do what they are doing. But, if you are missing some vital information there, you can start making some really incorrect assumptions. That second girl assumes that the guy values the first girl's opinion so little that an offhand rejection means nothing to him and that, by accepting him, he will value the second's more and elevate her above the first girl. She's assuming he is judging them. He's not. He wants to dance and one nice looking girl is about the same as any other. It's not even really occurred to him to wonder why the first one didn't want to dance. If you ask him later he may speculate she was tired or her feet hurt.

That's where the idea that they are so likable and have magnetic personalities comes from. They appear just so confident. Because they don't wonder if someone sees through a lie, they can lie and flatter easily because it is just like talking. The nervousness isn't there when you are bluffing. 

One party, the one with empathy, is drawing incorrect conclusions because he or she is making incorrect assumptions.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: It's really fucking weird how some of you jump at the chance to label yourselves sociopaths.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: It's kinda like they are watching the game, not playing it.

 For instance, my Dad should be the quarter back and  coach for the team. *he knows everything!* Why does he? He is removed from the game. He's not dealing with the pressure, the sweat, the confusion of the football field. The quarterback, however, is doing the best he can, but this is real to him and he has to deal with all of it. My dad doesn't. Therefore, he is able to systematically know the right thing to do at every time. But if *he* all of a sudden became the quarterback, he wouldn't do much better, possible even worse. 

Dad - >  sociopath

Quarterback - >  normal guy

The football game - >  emotions

When you're not having to deal with your emotions hindering you (the heat and pressure of the game) you can logically, knowing the best moves possible.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: What I had heard is that for the most part sociopaths do not have magnetic personalities at all. That is just a stereotype created by various movies. In real life most sociopaths you meet will tend to be rather dull, usually callous and mean, with severe problems in creative problem solving. They tend to be lazy, mooching, and profoundly selfish/ arrogant. It is only an acute minority of sociopaths who can actually play others and have a "magnetic personality".
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Sociopaths have something that author Sam Vaknin (find him on YouTube) describes as "cold empathy". They always know how you feel and are arguably some of the most empathic people. Unlike most of us, though, they don't care how you feel. They might as well be playing a video game watching little graphs move in front of your face, trying to get "trust" over 90% so they can get you to give them money or whatever.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Now I am not a sociopath, but I do have schizoid personality disorder, so the way I perceive and process the world around me is similar to that of a sociopath. I am more of a passive observer of the world rather than an active participant and this distance gives me the ability to kind of take a step back and really get a good bearing of my social landscape. 

Also it comes from decades of emulation and trial and error. When exposed to novel social situations, my behavior will often change dramatically as Im unsure how to present myself and sometimes either misjudge or even just drop the act and go into my full blown schizood self.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: There are two types of empathy - Emotional and Cognitive.  Emotional empathy is the capacity to  have other people's feelings spark an appropriate emotional response in yourself (e.g., to feel sad when you see how upset your friend is at the death of his mom - you don't feel sad *for* them, you feel sad yourself).  Cognitive empathy is the more intellectual, rational ability to put yourself in someone else's shoes and see things from their perspective, and determine their wants, needs, likely reactions, and so on.  

The stereotypical Hollywood sociopath is missing the first, but they have the second.  They can figure out what someone is thinking and use that knowledge to be manipulative, but other people's distress doesn't affect them.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: As someone diagnosed with various related 'disorders', and definitely largely incapable of the usual concept of empathy, I hope I can shed some light here.

From what I understand, most people have an instinctive desire to be liked, to fit in, to be validated and approved. And they have an instinctive ability to sense what others are feeling to a degree (empathy). They also, mostly, allow others opinions of them to affect their own image of themselves.

For me, I was raised far outside the realm of socially normal. Abusive parents, sheltered from society until late teens., early life of crime, followed by a fresh start, and now at 25, what most would consider extreme success. ($150k income with no education, popular, have had many relationships with beautiful women, etc.)

When I first started interacting with people other than my family, it was really a new experience. I could take what I head read, or seen on TV, and try to utilize that as a sort of playbook, but ultimately, I was very much learning on my feet. At first people considered me strange or creepy. But it didn't really affect me. I knew I was smarter than most people (at least on an IQ test, and I certainly believed so), and the simple fact is 95% of one's interactions make no difference to the rest of their life.

In other words, I could smell like shit, look like shit, creep the hell out of everyone, and unless I was interviewing for a job, or interacting with people where future interactions were likely (potential friends or partners, or business acquaintances), their view of me was completely irrelevant.

Over time, I learned what body language worked best, what topics worked best, what type of humor was the most widely liked. I don't know where the line in the sand was where I went from creepy to charismatic. But it happened at some point. 

I suppose it's something like the often cases of obese turning into mega fitness freaks, or of the guy with a terrible memory who became a world champion at memorizing stuff.

Practice makes perfect. Most people don't specifically 'practice' social skills because they don't need to. And even then many more are almost incapable of 'practicing' because they take feedback (ie the responses of people they interact with) as having some kind of effect on their ego or psyche other than as a logical piece of information. (Behaviour A as exhibited by myself in interaction X produced response B in Y% of cases.) Over time, one learns what to say and how to say it to bring out the response one wants best.

To answer the question like you're 5:

Most kids learn how to speak their mother tongue (say English) as they are growing up. Jimmy (the 'sociopath') was born speaking a very rare language. He had to learn English from scratch. As such after a few years of practice, his English is better than 99% of his peers because he had to specifically practice and practice that particular area of learning.

Thus since sociopaths live a life of faking empathy, and 'pretending' to be just like everyone else, they get better and better at learning what to say and what not to say, and how to say it, to get that thing that deep down nearly everyone wants -- people to do and say what they want them to.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: The term sociopath is a continuous miss-use of terminology. Psychopathy is the term you are looking for. Sociopathy is a lack of empathy etc.. caused by society. Psychopathy - means the exact same thing, just that you are born with it.


There us little evidence to say that sociopathy is a real thing, to me it just seems like an arbitrary definition created by sociologists. 


I'm no expert, but I've read a ton of books on this issue. People are born with these traits, they don't blossom as someone gets older.


People use the word sociopath because the term psychopath seems like the person is bat-shit crazy. This is simply not the case.  


This is a personal gripe and doesn't answer your question, I just wish more people knew about these differences in terminology.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: As a sociopath currently in therapy,  I can tell you that it is extremely difficult to force one to change this type of personality.  My husband's grandmother passed away a couple days ago, he was crying and I couldn't understand why he was so affected by her passing.  Needless to say I spent a lot of time out of the house because I am not comfortable being around people showing this type of "extreme" emotion. I didn't know what to do or say, so I told him, "That sucks,  but she was old so you had to have known this was going to happen sooner or later." Because to me that's logical. She was old, and sick, she was on her way out the door so why was everyone surprised,  shocked, or saddened by her death. I have had, or rather I am, having a difficult time learning to connect with people emotionally,  I don't get feelings... they are and unknown subject to me, it's just hard for me to understand.  Some people tell me I'm cold,  but I have a lot of friends that would say otherwise.  Granted I have never been the one to go to for emotional support, but I'd give you a kidney if you needed one, I'm loyal like that. Just don't come to me when your dog dies, or your frustrated with work,  cause you won't get the response or comfort you are looking for, instead you will be greeted with a blank stare, simply because I don't know what to do or say.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Because they see people as robots. You give people the right input and trigger a desirable response. Emotional people are easily to control.

When you think rationally, and aren't concerned with being liked, its not too hard to do the right things so people will like you.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: A lot of sociopaths aren't capable of it.  They aren't all charming manipulators; a lot of them are just selfish unlikeable assholes.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Sociopaths don't give a fuck. As I am sure you have experienced in social encounters, it would be easier if you didn't care so much.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I went to a therapist for awhile because of some issues within my family and I discovered I was a sociopath. they sent me to a psychiatrist and I found out after, and I still kept seeing my therapist. The thing is, You'd never notice because I have no trouble making friends and unless I told you, which I never do because people think I'm some murderous, crazy bastard. 

Now mind you, there are several different kinds of sociopathy and it really varies for each person. There are different levels of severity as well, and I'm not a full fledged sociopath, but the psychiatrist I saw told me that I showed signs of a "sociopathic personality" so, the way my therapist explained it to me, was basically having a better grasp at the cause and effect of situations that deal with emotions and are much more keen to the emotions of others while not stopping to think of our own sometimes. It was really just a nicer way of telling me how I have a tendency to be manipulative, which is totally true. We notice little things and take mental notes and analyze how certain behaviors and actions affect people, and we can use that to our advantage. This is why you see a lot of sociopaths who are police officers, because who can be better at tricking you into giving up that pot in your glovebox after simply stopping you for a broken tail light, than a master of manipulation? 

Another thing, is that we're very, very good liars. I have all my friends convinced that I'm just a regular joe, and not a sociopath. How have I done that? Lying. I've lied to my parents, friends, family, you name it, I've probably lied to it. Sociopaths always have ulterior motives, but you'd never know because we've done so well at convincing you otherwise. 

Now about the whole, lack of empathy part, it's not that we're cold hearted bastards with no soul, we're just more accepting at being an asshole than others. Which is really the simplest way I can explain being a sociopath. I have feelings. I love my friends and I don't have many, but my closely knit friend group would never be under the influence of my sociopathic super powers, because I don't have to. Did I use them to get them to like me more in the first place? Yes, but they'll never know. There's just certain things that we have no problem in not having a guilty conscience about. Am I buying you a drink because I'm just deciding to be nice? Nope. I'm buying you a drink because in the future I know you'll buy me one and you'll tell your friends and then they'll possibly buy me drinks. who doesn't like free drinks every once in awhile? 

Sociopaths are really misunderstood, and I'd really suggest that anyone who thinks they might be a sociopath, talks to their doctor or goes to see a psychiatrist. You're not crazy, you're still a human being.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Not a sociopath, and certainly not an expert, but I can make analogies pretty well.

When you learn to write at a young age, your habits stick with you for your entire life. For instance, I learned to hold the pencil the wrong way, and therefore I will forever have bad handwriting. In addition, I picked up many bad writing habits (such as starting from the bottom and not finishing at the top) and overall, my writing technique leaves shaky, uneven letters.

When I was younger this could have been fixed, because I was learning the mechanics and details of writing. Writing was very akin to drawing a series of pictures, and each time I wrote letters and sentences it was kind of like relearning everything. Each time I was figuring out the best way to draw the pictures, and I was experimenting.

However, now writing letters is routine. It's no longer like drawing pictures, I'm just writing the letters I always have, in the same way I always have. The TV show White Collar explains this very well; if you want to forge a signature, forge it upside-down. That way, you aren't rewriting the text in front of you, you're drawing an unfamiliar picture that happens to be the upside-down text of the name you want to forge.

Likeable social habits aren't hard to replicate, and almost everyone knows what the likeable habits are and what the unlikeable habits are.  But non-sociopaths have been living and breathing these habits their entire lives. It comes naturally. It's routine. It's writing letters. If we tried really, really hard, and changed our mindset, maybe we could present ourselves as likeable, magnetic people, just like many sociopaths. But that would go against our nature and our natural personalities. It'd be putting up a mask.

Sociopaths don't feel these emotions. At least, not to the same extent. Many feel like they need to replicate these emotions to fit into normal society, but it's not a real emotion that they're feeling. It's a show, or a mask. They're presenting themselves in a certain way contrary to what they're actually feeling. And the way they present themselves is the one that makes social life easiest. The one that makes everyone like them and everything agreeable. They become magnetic, likeable people by mimicing the likeable traits that they've observed in others. They're not writing the routine letters. They're copying the pictures.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: they are rarely magnetic and likeable for long. they are dedicated unrepentant assholes, and the only people who are drawn to them are people who don't think they deserve to be treated any better.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: What about the sort of reverse of sociopathy? People with a strong tendency to empathize or have emotional responses? Is this person just seen as over emotional or can this trait be medically significant?
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I understand, conceptualize emotions. So, I fake it. I smile and laugh and base my reactions on those around me. It's taken years to form my mask. I do ok
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Not giving a fuck is what makes them so appealing in the first place. People are drawn in by people who seem so sure about things.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: In this thread: Can't tell if sociopath or 14 yrs old. 

I feel like everybody wants to be a 'sociopath' these days because you want to be that cold, calculating extremely successful guy. 

The way I see it, almost all men have this quality and can tune into it.

This way of just shutting all your emotions down and getting that JOB FUCKING DONE.

This has been ingrained in us since hunting. It's protecting and survival. Almost all men have this quality.

Even some of the greatest fighters and martial artists can do it at will; they can remove all emotion, get so disassociated that they will literally prepare to die and then essentially turn into a 'vessel'.

Read some of Bruce Lee's philosophies and books on martial arts training (hell even look at his eyes in some of his movies when he kills people) it is dark, sadistic even and there is nothing there, nothingness forever. 

If you're a sociopath you're probably reading this casually and understand this, you don't identify with yourself and you LIVE in this nothingness, you have no identity, you ARE nothingness forever and to nothingness you will be going soon. 

If however you are capable of feeling you can understand this let out a sigh of relief and feel genuine gratitude for the time that you are here with a big smile on your face (people who are 'enlightened' or close to it can do this, they are usually normal people I would assume)

If you are 14 yrs old or trying to act cool or are just misinformed about your identity then this is going to go completely over your head and you might think you're cool until some near death experience with an eighteen wheeler, or thoughts about getting stabbed in your sleep in your bed, or maybe being lobotomized, possessed by a demonic entity/entities, or getting stabbed with an HIV+ needle or getting amputated are constantly plaguing your mind and you realize these are not akin to a lullaby putting you to sleep.

Please fakers, I'd like to see how you can come back and post so casually when this stuff will start happening to you in real time. 

And if you're a normal person then you will be scared. Losing your identity or claiming you never had one is no joke. 

To all the 'sociopaths' here I'm calling you out on your shit:

Have you practiced/dabbled in the occult, practicing demonic rituals and possession (Hey! you've got no identity to lose right? And who cares about heaven or hell, I mean you're already 'going to hell' or are you a 'soft sociopath'?)

Have you actually ever gotten sexually aroused at graphic violence and killing (this is a biological trait in many pathological killers)

Can you go into the woods and survive there for about a week by yourself and not come out like a scared little bitch ('sociopathic' mindset is almost EXCELLENT for survival and especially in times of scarcity where violence develops)

ALSO

If you say you are one. Why HAVEN'T you done any of these things? 

Sociopaths push themselves and can be very narcissistic. You're going to tell me that you are actually a 'lazy sociopath'? Sociopaths want to be on top and they don't care how they get there. Where is your fire? 

Finally, this is my ULTIMATE TEST.

AND I'M REALLY CALLING YOU GUYS OUT ON YOUR SHIT

If you're a normal person and you're faking, DON'T DO THIS...

IF you don't have an identity and you can operate in this world from such a disassociated state this should be fairly a 'cakewalk' for you.

IF NOT; YOU'RE A FUCKING PUSSY PSYCHOPATH POSER.

I want you to go home, turn off all your lights, find a quiet space and hopefully beforehand buy and read this book.

Spiritual Enlightenment: The Damnedest Thing by Jed McKenna

If you TRULY are a sociopath/psychopath even a serial killer (you don't have to tell me I don't fucking care) and you truly are a sociopath, then reading this book should be a breeze.

If you aren't one however (or worse if you're trying to act like it), you will be hit by the biggest dose of reality on the way things REALLY are and you will find your identity burn itself layer by layer like an onion. You will cry and not realize there are just so MANY things that you never even thought of were a part of you that can go away FOREVER. I suggest that if you want to live a normal life that you stop reading then.

But HEY! If you're a sociopath/psychopath you should be all good!

Now please, If you've gotten this far and are still challenging me on this.

I dare you fucking pussy.     

Get back to me when you're done reading this front to back. 

Don't say I didn't warn you poser.

So you might be asking yourself "What do I get from this?"

Well read this little piece: _URL_0_

It's Chapter 13 of The Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes and it's the cornerstone theory of government that America was founded on. It is a very strong concept in Politics and Political Control.

If you can understand, integrate and apply FULLY all the concepts in Damnedest along with the basic fundamentals of Chapter 13 of The Leviathan You should have almost NO problem taking over the world and getting what you want. 

I'm literally GIVING this to you. 

That's what you want right?...you on top?...others on the bottom where they belong?

If you really are a sociopath you should be able to accomplish this PERFECTLY and I WELCOME you to try (but I'm PRETTY sure you're not going to be able to do it, you're not even going to have the balls to make it quarter of the way through, that's because you're soft, and you're WEAK).

The world is right there for the taking, and if you're smart you'll understand how well these two concepts will connect together. I don't have to tell you that much. 

The rest of the other small detail stuff should be pretty easy for you to get right? (Psychological Techniques, CIA/FBI manipulation stuff, whatever, just don't tell ME about it).

IF by some sheer chance you DO make it out the other end. 

Please message me, I'd love to see the show...

BUTTT you're probly not going to be able to do this, because you're not REALLY a sociopath.

You're just a regular human being and that's ok :)
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Recently dated a sociopath: He was incredibly likeable and charming. Excelled in everything; School, work, career, social settings of all types, story-telling... He was well-liked by all types of people, could talk to anyone. He was even a sweet lover, cared about my emotional problems, wanted to please others, etc. Where he fell short was his own ability for emotional control: It was as though he had SO much control normally, that when any little thing went wrong or outside of his immediate control, he would just flip. Not like necessarily become a psycho or anything, but it would just eat him alive inside and he would get physically agitated from the stress. For our relationship, I think him having true feelings for me was truly too much for him to handle. When there were times that he did not understand an emotional response, it was such a huge issue and caused so much negativity, that the relationship was unsustainable. We had a good relationship for the most part, but, it ended with him exploding at me, almost like he had flipped and truly become a different person. I could see the shakiness inside of him, it was devastating. It was as if we had never been intimate, as if I was a stranger to him, as if I was suddenly the scum of the Earth to him, even though previously, he had made me feel as though we were deeply in love and deeply connected to each other, sensing each other's feelings even when we were physically apart. It seemed like he just couldn't handle FEELING. The "not being in control" part of it, whereby, sometimes others influence how you feel, so if you don't know enough about your own emotional control, that influence can disrupt your happiness. So, once he got to a certain point of "feelings" (like pent up annoyances at me, stresses from work, things we disagreed about, differing viewpoints, etc.) he just imploded. Total 180. He even admitted he was having a "nervous breakdown" as he yelled at me. He knew exactly what was happening. And, he was the one who, upon first meeting, told me he was a sociopath. We had talked about it, and what it would mean for being emotionally involved.

TL;DR: I think they do feel feelings but their spectrum is very bipolar, and they are very in control of one side, but not another. If they can function highly at one end of the emotional spectrum, they become outstanding charming well-liked people. Where they fall short, is being able to function anywhere outside of their emotional comfort zone.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I'm clinically diagnosed as a sociopath. I finally came clean to a psychologist one day (I had a problem with pathalogical lying, and would lie to psycologists, really anyone) and told him everything that I do just to manuver around the day. He told me that I may have a personality disorder. So he interviewed me for a good hour, grilling me on everything from work relationships to my sex life. My idea was to be completly honest so I could deal with depression and some other issues, and maybe get the help that thousands of wasted dollars didn't fix, maybe telling what I really thought and did would give the doctor a chance to "fix" what I thought was a problem. So he asked to do a follow up, but with my wife instead, and she told me the doc pretty much interrogated her about my every action (what would clown_clone do in this situation, what would clown_clone do if someone said this, ect.). Then he asked me to come back in on a later date and told me I had every characteristic of a sociopath, except I display empathy. Well, the next appointment was free, he asked if I would allow two of his colleagues to conduct interviews and observe each other during the interview. Long story short, they decided that whilst I seem to have the ability to turn empathy on and off, I don't. Many sociopaths, including myself, completely fake empathy to get farther ahead in life or to get what we really want. I can  explaine it  like how a car salesman might be excited to be selling a car, and listen to your story about your sick mom and comfort you while you peruse the wares. Whereas the sociopath will be excited to get ahead, this car sale might buy my new surround sound, ok, sick mom got it, tell the customer how their mother just passed a few months prior and they know family illnesses suck, then cry with the customer while on the test drive, then smile when you sign the papers while they text their mother asking where she wants to do lunch. Thats as best as i can do to explain it right now, comment if you want more information, I will help you understand the best I can.

Tl;Dr a sociopath can fake empathy
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: In reading some of the post on here, I see many confusing Sociopath with Psychopath. Sociopaths can express empathy, but reject moralistic and social values and responsibilities which many times give the appearance of a lack of empathy. Sociopaths have the capability for empathy, but it's pretty much been drummed out of them by abusive parents, childhood trauma's, and anything else that would cause them to distrust others. They are the ones that typically reject moralistic values and social rules and responsibilities seeing them all as hindrances to their animalistic natures. 

Psychopaths however never feel empathy, and may spend their life attempting to feel anything at all, especially since everyone around them is always talking about love, relationships, or how happy they are in their life. Their failed attempts at good feelings could at times evolve into more criminal behavior to see if it will allow them to feel  anything at all. They are not always bad though, and have been known to fake empathy to fit in. But they are also the types of people that tend to be on Wall Street, and also raiding people's retirement funds for personal gain. They could care less since they have no empathetic feelings towards others about stealing from others. 

Just to be clear though, not all sociopaths or psychopaths are bad though. Many do try to fit into society in some way.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Hey! I can answer this question! I spend all day interviewing psychopaths for scientific research (note the username). Like others have said here, the answer lies in their egos. A key component of psychopathy is a thing called Grandiose Sense of Self Worth, which basically means that they think that they are a 10/10 all the time. This often translates to a very dynamic and attractive person. You know how people constantly say "confidence is key" when encouraging a shy guy to ask a girl out or something? The idea is that, if you appear confident, girls will pick up on that and be more attracted to you (and thus willing to accept your date request). Psychopaths RADIATE that confidence. They are 100% sure of themselves all the time, and that is pretty attractive. 

Also, they lack empathy, but they are not stupid. It is pretty easy to understand that if you say the words "I love you" a girl will be more willing to sleep with you, then if you don't say those words. A psychopath would have no problem casually throwing "I love you" around just to get in someone's pants. They don't ever feel love, but saying the words requires no effort at all. 

Hope that helps!
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I think it's really about mimicking. The necessity for genuine empathy does arise sooner or later, once people start realising the sociopath loses interest once his or her own immediate need has been met - but it's a little scary how quickly a stranger can make you view him or her in a positive light without any empathy at all. It's on a gut level, they're performing in a way that many people have to be trained to do, to make them better salespeople for example. So the sociopath will notice that smiling gets him a better response. He starts to use that. Then he notices that appearing interested in other people gets a better response. And so on, building an act, but only in pursuit of his own goals. People naturally smile back at someone who smiles while addressing them. Lots of people just never figure that out. Sociopaths do.

Also remember the people the sociopath seeks out might very well be damaged in themselves and therefore more vulnerable, grateful for any attention or affirmation.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I was diagnosed sociopathic as a teenager, realising it makes life awesome. I am happy to be one, I get to choose who I am and am completely protected emotionally, the only people to ever "get through" are my kids and that makes me nervous since even the passing of my parents didn't effect me but if I lose one of them I don't know what is going to happen. Other than that looming thing I am perpetually happy, I could definitely see how being undiagnosed would be an issue, seeing other people have strong emotional reactions to things you don't can feel alienating and mess with your head but knowing makes everything kind of cool if you can accept it.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: What you're describing is called 'superficial charm,' and not all sociopaths possess it - only the most intelligent ones. The majority of sociopaths are not charming and likable.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Is it learned or are you born with it?  Can you practice to control these things?  Is this known yet?
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: They don't; the hollywood version of a sociopath is very different from the real version of a sociopath.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: A lot of misconceptions about sociopathy (anti-social personality disorder) in here. Well, you're about to hear directly from the horses mouth on this one. 

***Misconceptions***

- Sociopaths don't feel empathy

This is not true. I am a sociopath, and I feel empathy. The caveat here is I get to pick and choose who I feel empathy for. I can spend my entire life around family, and choose to not feel a single drop of empathy for them. Which is very much the case. I have empathy for only the children in my family, and my grandfather. My parents, grandmother, cousins, aunts, uncles. Nothing. 

I watched the grandmother who used to babysit me every week die as the doctors shut off the machine helping her breathe. I sat and watched  who should have been my favorite grandmother gasp and choke for breath as life slowly slipped away from her, without a single shred of emotion or remorse. 

On the flip side of that coin, I haven't seen my niece for many months now, and I still think about her every day. It breaks my heart, and I will tear up every so often because I miss her so much.

***Sociopaths are violent. Sociopaths hurt animals as a child***

Not true. I quite like most animals, and I am not violent. I was a fighter as a child, and am a trained fighter as an adult. I have fought lots in the past, but not so much as an adult. The reason is that there is no logic to fighting. I will in the right circumstances, but the possibility of a criminal record is enough of a deterrent to keep me steadily within the realm of civility. I am much more like Spock than I am Charles Manson. Violence does not benefit me, so I do not do it.

Don't get me wrong. I can be viciously violent. I have violent thoughts (more on this later). But I act on reason and logic alone. Emotion plays no part in my decisions. In the vast majority of violent altercations, emotion is usually one of the main factors which fueled the incident.

***A little about me***

I'll do this in point form, as it will be easier to digest than walls of text.

- I live in complete isolation. I have no friends. I do not speak to family. Despite being "hollywood" good looking, I have never kissed a woman. I don't understand relationships, and just prefer to avoid them.

- I am, and I quote, "unusually calm in dangerous situations". I have been in many hairy situations in my life. From knives and guns, to feeling my or someone else's life is being threatened. Dozens if not hundreds of fights. One thing remains static, and that is my disposition. If you came up and talked to me at the water cooler at work, I would be no different than if you spoke to me in a foxhole. 

- I have a massive ego. My intelligence is off the charts, so I feel it justified. However, were conflicting evidence to present itself to question just how off the charts it is, I would likely question the evidence and not myself.

- I do mimic emotion. It is not conscious, and until just recently I was not only unaware I did it, I thought everyone else did too. 

I once said to a doctor "People are speaking to themselves, right?" Meaning that we project out perspectives into the person with whom we converse. We impart our ideas and perspectives into the body of another, and we speak to others from the same perspective which we'd speak to ourselves. I later realized the reason I do this, because I do not feel empathy and emotion as other people do. I also realized that other people actually see me as a distinct person. They try to understand my emotional complexities, and react to me personally. Quite the surprise when I found this out I must say.

Now, I can mimic emotion quite well. I'm a phenomenal actor. It's not consciously manipulative as many would think. It's just something I've always done. Reacting X to Y situation will yield Z result. It's formulaic, and again, something I thought everyone did. I thought everyone pretended to be sad and show remorse when national tragedies and disasters happen. Until recently it never occurred to me that other people were actually sad. 

- I feel emotion. I feel love, sorrow, joy. The only "emotion" I guess I've never truly felt is envy. Much of this emotion is inwardly focused, but I can feel it for others. Caveat being I can choose who to feel for. 

- I can be consciously manipulative and charming. I generally don't, because I don't much like people nor care to interact with them. But when I have to, I can flip that switch and have anyone immediately love me. I have done this in rare instances where my freedom (police) and monetary security (government) were in jeopardy. 

- I have a wicked temper. It lasts only about 30 seconds to a minute, but I explode. And the odd thing is, it's only ever only trivial things. You could shoot my dog in front of me, and I would not get angry at all. In fact, I'd be more interested in what just happened than angry. But if you do something trivial that annoys me, my blood will boil. I have put more holes in walls than I can count. I have broken countless possessions. And when I get in this state, I have brutally violent thoughts. Decapitating people. Gutting then. Dismembering them. Again, when push comes to shove, logic and reason is my ultimate motivator. Even if I were in this state and alone with a person, the logic to stay out of prison would outweigh the vicious anger. I have been in this state before and not harmed other people, because logic is what dictates my actions. Not emotion. Killing someone does not benefit me, so I do not do it. I could likely kill someone and go about my life as if it never happened. But I don't.

- I was not always this way. I had a traumatic life, and a switch flipped around the age of 17 a switch flipped. 


There is likely a lot more I can elaborate on. If anyone has any questions, I'd be more than happy to answer them.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Let's say in some capacity you are useful to me, it would benefit me if you liked me. Now how do I go about manipulating you. Well first off I'm a great observer, I mean really good. You know all that stuff you see in television about reading people's faces, you know the unconscious micro expressions that "give" you away when you lie and what not. Well I'm really good at noticing that, like so good I'm not even consciously doing it, I just am. Second I have spent my entire life pretending to be one of you normal people. I'm "sad" when a kitten dies I feel affection/love whenever blah blah blah. Basically I do things I am completely indifferent to because it reinforces the "part" I'm playing. Now I wasn't this good to begin with, when I was younger there was a lot of fine tuning going on. There were quite a few awkward moments and raised eyebrows, but don't worry I mastered the art. So with those two tools in my repertoire I can read you and dance to your beat. Together we play this game of give and take where mostly you give and I take. I learn what your boundaries are and I shape my persona into what could be considered your ideal person. Then when I got what I needed from you or you become an annoyance I'm gone without ever feeling guilt or regret or any other feeling. If that didn't quite answer your question then this might. If you have never been burned (by fire, heat, etc) you still have an understanding of what fire is, what has happened to others who have been burned, it's the same for empathy and other emotion. You know what happy looks like, you see people happy all the time. You know what conditions cause normal people to be happy. You know like seeing someone get run over by a carrr...errrr opening presents.  < . <     > . >   You can intellectually know about something without ever having personally experienced it for yourself. 

**TL/DR** - You can intellectually know about something without ever having personally experienced it for yourself.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I have been called a sociopath by friends and family for a very long time, so I assume I am one - its kinda weird because I didnt know what that word even meant for a long time; I took it as a compliment for years without understanding its meaning(I assumed it meant something ~popular). After years of this, I asked my friend what a sociopath was, and finally understood that people had been pointing out that I don't care about others' problems. I am very nice to people, and enjoy being nice to them because it makes me feel good about myself. When someone tries to explain their troubles/problems/emotions/etc., I don't understand why they haven't fixed them or just be happy; to me, I just fix my own problems without the need of assistance from others, and I am happy all the time. My wife is overly emotional, and when she cries, I just sit there and don't say anything (I used to tell her how to fix whatever it was or make fun of her for crying, but that just made it worse... I learned to just sit there and be quiet). I don't really understand emotions, and really don't care about others' problems; my mentality: I fix all of my own problems myself without getting others involved - why should I help you with your problems?

Sorry for rambling a bit, but I hope this at least got you a little into the mind of someone who has been called a sociopath by many. If you have any questions, etc., I'll answer anything you have :)

Edit: I forgot to put in here that I change the way I act in front of different people because I think everyone should look up to me as an example of how someone can have everything together in their lives. That sounds really egotistical when I put it that way, but its really the only way I can describe it.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: There is a large misunderstanding in our culture in regards to empathy... Most people understand empathy to be a state of understanding... And that is one of its definitions. Unfortunately, with sociopathy, the empathy reference is the second definition, which is: "to vicariously experience the feelings, thoughts, and experience of another of either the past or present without having the feelings, thoughts, and experience fully communicated in an objectively explicit manner; also :the capacity for this". 

Basically, a sociopath has the ability to understand pain, loss, and all of the other emotions, but does not actually feel them. Example: a good friend experiences a death of a parent, a sociopath can understand that the friend is in pain, but does not take on any of that pain. They do not even feel bad for their friend. 

Now, because they understand that their friend is in pain, they know that there is a socially acceptable response, sympathy and comfort. As a social preservation, they will mimic the reaction of someone who has empathy. 

Sociopaths learn early in life that they need to be hyper observant of how normal people act in order to not be ostracized. 

So to answer why they are so good at being likable, because they spend their lives learning proper responses so they fit in, and their emotions are not effected as much by those around them.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: When people describe the magnetic personality of a sociopath they are often describing their inability to recognize unhealthy pathology in another human being.  Human beings will note that there is something unique in another human being and be drawn to it in the same way that humans want to touch something beautiful before they learn that the beauty is inherent to the danger.  Sociopathological differences often provide just enough uniqueness that a person stands out inexplicably and people are drawn to them out of sheer curiousity more than anything because they appear to be "new and exciting." Incomparison to the humdrum people that all look alike.  Sociopathology isn't always distinctly dangerous and you would be hard pressed to find an example of any human being held in social reverance who doesn't express some or all of the "symptoms" of being narcissistic/sociopathic.  I also honestly can't think of any sociopath who's diagnosis wasn't the product of some estranged psych-savvy lover they once crossed who labelled them that way out of their own inability to cope with the disconnection.

Bunch of stupid monkeys pointing fingers and calling other stupid monkeys names for not being able to deal with how they behaved.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: It makes perfect sense really. If a person lacks the conscious ability to care whether or not another human being suffers and / or dies, then they probably lack the mechanisms responsible for most of our shortcomings in social interaction. Things like social anxiety, and inferiority complexes are less likely to exist in a sociopathic personality. They may not necessarily enjoy crowds but I think in personal interactions they may have a leg up on the competition when it comes to making a "good" first impression. 

Being friendly is one thing that I think most people can do well. Being friendly and confident is something that comes less naturally to a lot of people. Confidence, and maybe even overconfidence are traits associated with sociopaths. Faking friendliness is easy for anyone.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Anyone and everyone *can* have a magnetic personality once you know what someone is interested in/likes/ etc....it's just a matter of displaying traits that are deemed "likeable", while keeping to yourself traits which would be deemed "undesirable". There really isn't much rocket science behind it. Sociopaths are no exception, they just generally pick up on these traits quicker because it's more important to them in getting to their end goal (being liked, manipulation, whatever). Im trying to stick to the ELI5 mentality here, so I guess basically (without getting into the depth and ability that sociopaths experience empathy) , you don't need to really even relate/connect with someone to get them to like you. It simply takes understanding what a person likes in someone else and then exploiting it.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: The reason is because they are very charming and superficial. They will try to generate stimuli through laughter and/or interest, because that's what they want to experience themselves and to make you more interested in them as a person.

That's why they come across so likeable, it's the obvious way to get someone to like you, which is why psychopaths do it.

(One last thing) You said sociopaths not psychopaths. Sociopaths are psychopaths but more out of society, more impulsive, more criminal behaviour that is violence oriented. They are not as charming and likeable as psychopaths. Though they often are.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Source: work in child psych
Although children generally aren't diagnosed with antisocial personality disorder, it is very easy to pick out the kids who have a high risk of developing it later on. Generally these individuals have very high intelligence and can understand empathy enough so that they can be manipulative. Most individuals with APD just have very low empathy. So they can understand how to make you feel a certain way,  but they don't really give a shit if they're not getting anything out of it.
This is an extreme oversimplification.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: When one does not choose to experience emotionally, anothers' perspective then they are also denying themselves access to information about how the other is viewing their own spectrum of options. It makes it hard to predict how others might react to you. Maybe their relationship to the world is the way it is in part due to feeling unable to predict. It might make sense to compensate for that by trying to better control the world by any means. In such a case, empathy is there, but only as a luxury.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I think it largely boils down to a level of self-control that's more readily available or accessible to people further down the sociopathy/psychopathy spectrum.  

I get the sense that anyone could be charming, confident, and otherwise likable by "faking it", but "faking it" is an easier and more successful experience for a person who *has* to create a useful personality on a regular basis (ie: most of their lives), like those without (much or any) naturally occurring empathy.  Practice makes perfect.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Conversations are simple matters of manipulation. You don't need empathy to understand how people work and what they want. The easiest way to get what you want and control people and situations is to get people to like you; the easiest way to have fun is to play with other people. When you are able to evaluate situations from an outside perspective without relating to the people around you, you can sometimes understand them better than they understand themselves.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: You heard wrong. Most sociopaths are terrible at getting people to like them. Because they have severely inhibited empathy, they have exactly the problems you'd expect.

But most people see Dexter and American Psycho, and they assume that this is how real life sociopaths are. Truth is, legitimate sociopaths (being selfish is not the same as being a sociopath) with magnetic personalities are INSANELY rare - which is part of why stories about them are so interesting.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I believe a great deal of it has to do with a lack of, or at least, relative absence of, doubt. When we see other people who are certain and purposeful in what they are doing, as if they are not bedeviled by the doubts that plague us, we are more likely to consciously or subconsciously assume that they know what they're doing, where they're going, and since we don't, the hook is in the mouth.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I assume you are pretty intelligent, especially considering your well-phrased question. As a redditor you've probably come across plenty of jokes, and you get what is funny about them, and why the others laugh, but yet you fail to feel anything. You understand that if you were in a group of people, and the joke was told, you should laugh.

Now apply this to every single emotion, and you've answered your own question.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: They could just be great imitators. It's like how birds can imitate speech quite well. You can be a great actor, understand the emotions, but it doesn't mean you feel them. It just means you're very self-aware and observant and probably quite intelligent. 

I think you just call that emotional intelligence. Good question, not sure I answered it, but it's nice to see a good one on here.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: The only scientific law in psychology is: when people become afraid they tend to do as they have always done. It is because creative/ outside the box thinking is especially hindered when someone experiences anxiety. 

Sociopaths give no fucks, and that is why they are so much better at manipulating people. 

It also explains 4chan to for me.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: If you can see the "weakness" you lack in other people, you take notes. You either emulate the feelings, or exploit and manipulate others. A loner sociopath doesn't get exposure to real emotion, therefore is less able to "fake it" and then the cracks begin to show themselfs. 

I feel like it's a lizard brain survival skill really.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: For them, the interaction is based on what they want or need from the relationship.  You may perceive a connection, but there is none, or it is one-sided.  Empathy is necessary to care or love, but not necessary to learn and execute a formula to get people to provide for your needs.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I always think movies/ shows like "The Talented Mr. Ripley" or "Dexter" are interesting because they force us to empathize with a character who doesn't show empathy. This shouldn't work, but it does because these people are smart and cunning, yet cold and calculating.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Sociopaths are usually capable of empathy, sometimes to an extreme, it's more like not letting that empathy effect them. In other words, they understand what others feel intimately, it's just usually not "real" to them.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: i think that says a lot more about how the average person's ability to see through someones demeanor is not very impressive.

the majority of people are awful at being able to *read* others.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Empathy is both behavior and emotion.  When you feel empathy, it leads you to certain behaviors.  Just because you don't feel the emotion, it doesn't mean you can't still emulate the behaviors.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Yeah, I really oversimplified but its hard to explain a difference that we take for granted as human nature
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: I think one of the biggest signs of a sociopath is frequently returning video tapes.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Here is a video featuring the world expert on the topic.
_URL_1_
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: Not having empathy isn't the same as being ignorant of it.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: TIL everyone thinks sociopaths and psychopaths are the same thing.
question: How are sociopaths able to have such magnetic personalities and appear likable when they have no empathy?Isn't empathy neccissary in order to relate/connect with someone? I've hear sociopaths are excellent at getting people to like them initially. The two seem to contradict eachother. answer: they don't have "magnetic personalities". that's just an internet trope/myth.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Temperature and bugs

It's warmer up higher off of the floor, less dusty and bugs and snakes have a harder time getting up there.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Wait until you're in your 50's...

It gets harder and harder pulling yourself up and on to your feet...especially first thing in the morning. 

Being able to slide your legs over, push off and stand up -- it's not a luxury it's almost essential. 

Hey, I'm an active guy, running, biking, swimming or playing soccer nearly every day. 

But my body hurts. 

You'll see...
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Surprised no one has mentioned that a lot of countries do just sleep on a bedroom in the floor. I've slept on just a mattress in China, Vietnam, and Korea. While not everyone does it, it's certainly not uncommon.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: If you have any damp issues in your home and you put a mattress directly on the floor it will start to rot. Beds need ventilation.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: A mattress left on the floor will collect moisture and then mold will form.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Bugs. I had a three inch spider run his ass across my floor. I blasted him with bug spray. Right in his stupid little eyes.  Guess what happened?  He ran away and didn't die.  I went to Lowe's THAT DAY and built a 2x4 bed frame a good 3 feet off the ground.  

Fuck bugs. Seriously.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Ooh I can answer this one!

Years ago I slept on a mattress on the floor. Then one night I climbed into bed and suddenly my body sort of folded so that I went flying up to land about five feet away with my entire nervous system screaming GETITOFFMEGETITOFFMEGETITOFFMEEEE, a feat of acrobatics I could not in a million years perform at will. 

The trigger for this bit of atavistic levitation was revealed when I turned on the bedroom lights. A small (but big enough) California Kingsnake (a beneficial predator) was hiding out in my bed. 

The next day I built a frame to get the mattress off the floor. I haven't had any (actual) snakes in my bed since then so it must have worked (in case of failure to snort in dry amusement, adjust irony detector). Whether it works or not I can tell you that in my case it was 100% that I wanted the wild snakes to hang out *under* the bed, not up on top with me.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: I would say for these 2 simple reasons.

* easier to get in / out of bed from a higher matress.

* more storage area underneath.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: I don't use bed frames. Boxed springs on floor with mattress on top. I've never liked the shakiness of most frames and also the monsters can't reach my feet when they hang off.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: I believe it has something to do with airing out the mattress since our body heat and sweat on a daily basis can attract mold and bugs and such.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Stops those spider bastards from chilling on your face in the night
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: waiiit wait wait hold the fucking phone...my mattress is on the floor are you telling my this isn't a natural thing 

also if I hear one pun about "nothing really mattress" or anything like that I'm going to lose it
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Go back 200 years. No heating. Floor... Cold. Cold floor.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Fuck all that, when are we going to get mattresses that are just fuckin hovering in the air and shit, with a retractable fuckin screen that is only opened for you to enter/exit said bed, so that there are no bugs and or mosquitos capable of touching your bed EVER


Read the other comments, they got to me.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Height. It is so that the bed is of proper height to sit on the edge of.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Dust.  Sleeping close to the ground means I get all congested from the dust that lives around there.

I actually put my bed on risers (like, 6 inches, I think, maybe more) to get more underbed storage space, but the real reason that beds are raised is to prevent dust from making you extremely uncomfortable while you sleep.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Comments are TL;DR
Here's the break down: 1) Keep mattress from getting wet/moldy 2)Keeps bugs off of bed 3)Allows for storage underneath 4) Dust/dog hair etc 5) Getting out of bed when you're older is hard on the ground
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Japanese people use futons (not the american "futons" that are pull out couch beds, just google image Japanese futon) I'm American but ethnicity is Japanese and currently laying on the ground/bed(futon). I don't have a preference but I do have to say it keeps my back straight. My old soft mattress use to give me back pain because it would curl my back while I slept
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Further, the body heat and moisture would seep into the mattress and it would get mouldy pretty quickly underneath without some sort of circulation. Ruined carpet and ruined mattress. Unless...your house happens to be pretty dry and free of drafts. 

In the UK that's a pretty hard combination to find it seems.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: A lot of these comments reference the aversion of bugs and cold, but what about Japanese tatami mats? If what I see in foreign Japanese flicks, most beds are set on the ground, and that society is as modern as can be now!
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: I heard that it started to become a thing during the Black Plague where it would keep you away from the rats.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: If you put a foam mattress directly on the carpet it gets mouldy underneath.

Source: I grew up in a poor family and they couldn't afford a proper bed for me, so I slept on this thick two-layer foam mattress. Years later (even before I was a teenager) I discovered it was cemented to the floor with copious green mould. It was really disgusting.

I'm not sure if I was getting a new bed, and moved the old one to discover it... or I moved the old one and this discovery prompted a new bed. But either way I got a new bed (a futon) and although I don't like futons anymore I'm still using the frame 20 years later.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: For the guys out there, having the top of your mattress line up with the top of your inseam (bottom of your sack for the younger crowd) seems to line things up quite nicely during sexy time for positions where the guy is standing.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Probably bed bugs. They are disgusting evil creatures. And were once ubiquitous. One trick to prevent is put the legs of a bed in buckets with water or oil in them. So a big advantage having legs on your bed.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Cold air gathers from the ground up. Elevating your place of rest lets you rest in warmer air. It also makes it easier to stand up from your bed if it is at knee height.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Japanese sleep on the floor on mattresses (futons, technically).  Reason?  Space.  They roll them up and put them away during the day.

Source: japanese (okinawan, technically) grandparents and mom
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: I'm pretty sure that the correct answer is that your mattress needs air circulation underneath it. otherwise you might get fungi on it.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Because there are small dangerous monsters that eat people's faces at night.  They usually can't climb bed frames.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Because we have to store the Christmas decorations somewhere...
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: You need a bed frame to create a space underneath that will become a place for dust bunnies and cats to hide in. It is also a good place for wayward socks to migrate to...a place to throw your book that you are reading before sleep...a hide out for the monsters of your mind.  
People. Do yourselves a favor. When buying a mattress, buy the best one you can afford. The quality of sleep is far superior and a good mattress will last a very long time. Just do not invest in the beds that sport a 2 foot box spring and a 2 foot mattress. Man oh man, those things require a ladder to get into and a parachute to get out of safely.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: I learned the hard way... mold. I put my new memory foam mattress on the floor and after two months I decided it I should do as suggested when breaking a mattress in and spin it around but i was greeted with green crap all over the bottom. not fun
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: When people had iron beds, they used to put the legs in a can of Kerosene in order to keep bed bugs out. This going back to the 1940's and 1950's before the widespread use of Pyrethreans.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: We used to sleep on frames, but then we got rid of them, as they were getting pretty old, and money was and still is tight. I sleep on one mattress on the floor. It's great.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: As a Senior Citizen, I can guarantee you that getting into and out of a bed that's raised some distance from the floor is a whole lot easier, especially if/when arthritis kicks in.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: You've clearly never lived in a big city, mice are always a risk and you don't want those things on your bed.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Sex while standing at the edge of the bed is much better with a bed at the proper height.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: To keep the mattress away from any spills or anything on the floor that could ruin it.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: When the modern bed was designed it was comments for vermin to crawl about at night.
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: I prefer my boxspring and mattress on the floor better support and nothing sinks
question: Why do we sleep on bed frames, and not just a mattress on the floor? answer: Wait, I'm supposed to have something besides a mattress on the floor?
question: In ancient and medieval times, how did soldiers distinguish friend from foe in battle?When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?  answer: Sometimes they didn't. However for the most part it involved big flags and designs on the shields. Some armies were equipped totally different but others where similarly equipped there were special people called heralds who could tell whose design on a flag or shield were who and which side they were supposed to be on.
question: In ancient and medieval times, how did soldiers distinguish friend from foe in battle?When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?  answer: 1) Even though there were no "standard" uniforms, armies would often have their soldiers marked with a specific symbol on their clothing, like a big cross or X or something.  You can see an example [in this old painting](_URL_0_).

2) Battles didn't descend into disorderly chaos very frequently.  Armies survive on discipline and cohesion, more than any other factor.  So for the most part, you would stick in a tight group with the rest of your unit, and it would be pretty obvious who was in your unit and who wasn't.

3) Simply yelling.  If a unit got separated, an officer might try to re-group it by yelling for his men to get back into formation.  The average soldier would also be yelling a battle cry, partly to induce fear in the enemy and partly as a unit identifier.  Language and accent would help identify who was who.
question: In ancient and medieval times, how did soldiers distinguish friend from foe in battle?When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?  answer: >  When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?

A couple of things could make this easier. If you for example are fighting a different cultural group they likely look different enough to distinguish at a glance, even though movies these days are generally going to be pulling extras from the same general ethnic group.

Another aspect is that soldiers are going into battle with their own unit. If you live with a group of people 24/7 you are going to start to be able to recognize them fairly easily, so when in battle you aren't going to suddenly forget who they are. At that point it is just up to the unit commanders not marching their troops on a different unit from the same army, which can be achieved simply by carrying a standard with the right colors.
question: In ancient and medieval times, how did soldiers distinguish friend from foe in battle?When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?  answer: Battles used to be quite smaller in medieval times. Smaller units like viking raiders were small enough that everyone knew the face of everyone else on their side. These are people who travel together and live in the same camp together so they would be able to recognize each other, even if they did not remember everyones name. Just remember back to when you went to school with 3-400 other kids and would still be able to recognize people from your school if for example two schools were at the same sports event. This is the scale of most battles. Bigger battles were fought between mostly between different empires. So you would be able to tell people apart based on their gear. A polish knight would have a different style of armor then a french knight.

There were times throughout history when you would be able to gather enough men from similar regions to have a big battle. But this does require a lot of organization as you need to convince people though money or politics to take part in your war. It is easy to get people to the battlefield when the mongols or the crusades comes and invade your country, however it is much harder to summon people to the battlefield when the neighboring town stole your bucket. When you have an organized wealthy society that can manage such armies you would be able to equip your soldiers with some sort of uniform. Not all soldiers in an army would get the same uniform as they were often belonging to different mercenaries or independent lords. However remembering a few banners is much easier then a few thousand faces. The people under each banner were also kept away from each other for the most part.

But there are a lot of stories of friendly fires in medieval battles. Soldiers had a hard time recognizing allies in big battles and sometimes mistook their uniforms or banners. One such famous example happened in one of the battles in the war of the roses when a cavalry flanking charge were successful at driving an enemy to panic into opposing infantry forces. But this maneuver send the cavalry charging head on into friendly forces who did not recognize their banners. It was also not that uncommon for soldiers to stop and see if someone they did not know were a friend or foe would attack or not, sometimes even asking them directly. The movie Braveheart uses this as an element a few times and demonstrates how such confusion can happen in the heat of battle and how it can be resolved.
question: In ancient and medieval times, how did soldiers distinguish friend from foe in battle?When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?  answer: Most battles didn't decend into madness. Even Vikings and other raiders, when not looting, organized into tight shield walls

Of course there are mistakes made. The Austrians once killed thousands of their own men mistaking them for Ottoman regiments and a battle between the two sides ensued. This was a minority though, as most armies evolved banners, uniforms, and other communication methods to reduce friendly fire. But there were occasional mistakes, especislly at night.
question: In ancient and medieval times, how did soldiers distinguish friend from foe in battle?When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?  answer: Common lore that the leek became a symbol because during a rebellion, I wanna say owain maybe Llewelyn, maybe a story figure, realised both English and Welsh were killing one another, so he called a retreat, went to a nearby field and placed leeks on his men. Thus, a leek would mark a Welshman
question: In ancient and medieval times, how did soldiers distinguish friend from foe in battle?When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?  answer: Uniform/Armor Style (colors worn, kind of gear, cloaks, tabards, etc), Ethnicity, Shield decoration, flags being flown, personally knowing each other, etc. But it was common for mistakes to be made.
question: In ancient and medieval times, how did soldiers distinguish friend from foe in battle?When I look at movies that have vikings etc in them, they have no regulation uniforms whatsoever and their enemies wear roughly the same looking gear. How did the soldiers know, who were the enemies?  answer: A lot of armies fought in formations which helped since everyone who was a good guy was over HERE while everyone who was a bad guy was over THERE.

Before the era of formations, when skirmish warfare (people just running around bonking each other) prevailed, the fact that the basic social unit was probably a village, etc. may have helped since everyone would've been speaking the same language and the same dialect of the language (kill everyone with a funny accent!!!!).

Still, even in the era of formations, accidents can and did happen - during the Peloponnesian War, there were "friendly stabbing" incidents during night time battles, some of which were catalyzed by people hearing other people speaking with a funny accent and not realizing that they were allies and not the bad guys.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: The issue with vaping is that it is a relatively new way to use nicotine. It took decades of research and observation to identify the adverse health effects to chronic users of other tobacco products, and it will likely take a similar amount of time to confidently identify any problems that arise with e-cigarette use. That said, e-cigarettes do not contain the same harmful ingredients as cigarettes, which probably makes them safer, although I can't say how much.

There have been some studies that show using e-cigarettes increases your risk of developing respiratory symptoms such as coughing or increased phlegm production. It is possible that it could increase your risk for heart disease, although that risk seems to be hypothetical at the moment.

As far as cancer goes, while many of the carcinogens found in cigarettes are much lower in e-cigarettes, propylene glycol and glycerol (the main components in the liquid cartridge) both break down into several potential carcinogens. I can't say whether this makes lung cancer/disease more or less likely, however.

And of course, nicotine abuse is bad for your cardiovascular system. That has not changed.

TLDR; it's up in the air. The general consensus seems to be it is likely safer than cigarettes, however it's possible that there could be some bad stuff in the vapor. If there are negative health consequences, we won't really find out until people start getting sick, unfortunately.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: If we don't read into your question at all, the answer is of course, vaping is unhealthy.  Inhaling any foreign substance is generally going to be unhealthy.

If you're vaping or thinking about vaping just to vape, and not as a smoking cessation method, please don't, it's pretty dumb.  If you insist, at least use zero nicotine juice.

All that said, if you're using vaping to quit smoking cigarettes, that's a different conversation.  I smoked for 25 years and quit the day I got a vape setup.  I vaped for 2 years, slowly lowering my nicotine intake, and then I quit the vape, about a year ago.  It was pretty effortless, although I'll stress that using a vape to quit smoking requires 

1) a good investment in a quality kit

2) another investment in a quality BACKUP kit and accessories so when your batteries are dead or you're out of coils or juice, you're not forced to go buy cigarettes.

3) the right amount of nicotine in your juice.  If you're still feeling the need to smoke a cigarette, increase your nicotine.  I started with 18mg/ml, you may need 24mg/ml, or 9mg/ml might sate your craving.  It depends on the person.


I felt respiratory improvement after 2 weeks of not smoking.  I certainly felt it in my wallet (vaping is ridiculously cheap compared to smoking), and I even felt it in my personal life, my wife really liked that I didn't smell like smoke.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: It's not harmless.

It's significantly *less* harmful than smoking, but most e-liquids contain nicotine, which has harmful effects of its own, and many contain at least some carcinogens (that's "things that cause cancer", this being ELI5).  That's just to *start* with; there are other reasons it's not good for your health.

The long-term effects are unknown, so no major effects have been established, but that's not the same thing as an *absence* of major effects having been established.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: Source: Former smoker who now vapes, have read some news coverage and some actual scientific coverage.

Nicotine by itself is not actually all that harmful, its similar to caffeine. No reasonable person will argue that it is not addictive, it clearly is. However, it is well understood that people get addicted to cigarettes because it is a highly efficient nicotine delivery system, but they are killed by the other components in the cigarette.

Many of the chemicals in smoke which are known to be harmful come specifically from the combustion. If you were to dry out some lettuce and smoke it, you would inhale many of the same carcinogens. Used properly, vaping does not burn anything - i.e. there is no combustion. 

However, it is possible to 'dry hit' a vape - such as when you forget to refill the tank. This causes the cotton to burn and therefore creates the same types of carcinogens to be produced as in cigarettes. Some studies of vape technology have reported very high levels of formaldehyde, specifically, but examining the materials and methods of these studies shows that they were almost certainly burning the cotton. Therefore, high levels of formaldehyde actually are a good litmus test for the validity of a study. If the levels are too high, they are likely studying older technology and using it improperly. This is not to say the scientists involved are incompetent or doing this deliberately, the technology has improved very significantly in the last few years.

Public Health England [has concluded through scientific study](_URL_0_) that vaping is about 95% less harmful than smoking. This does not mean that vaping is harmless, simply less harmful. 

What is **not** yet known is the long-term effects of vaping. The first e-cig was invented in 2003. There were only a handful of products on the market before the last few years. We have about a century of data on smoking and its long term effects. 

Is it possible that in fifty years we will learn that vaping was in fact more harmful in the long term? We cannot rule that out, but we have no reason to believe it will happen. However it is known that continuing to smoke will be harmful, so for people like me who have had no success quitting without vaping it is worth a try. We have a choice between something that will definitely kill us, or something that might but more likely won't.

**TL,DR:** If you've never smoked, its probably not a good idea to start vaping. If you can quit smoking without vaping, quit smoking. However, many people have been unable to quit smoking without vaping, and reducing harm is better than continuing to smoke.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: I used to work for an e-cig company working for a friend. He made millions when it first became a big hit (here in Canada) 6-8 years ago. My job was to make the juices, i.e. liquids that go into the devices. I was labels as an "E-Liquid Engineer". It kind of made me laugh, and it was then I realised sometimes the words "professional" and "highly trained" gets thrown around more often then it should. 

Essentially, what I was tasked with doing was mixing the core ingredients of the chemicals. There are two main ingredients, PG (Propylene Glycol) and VG (Vegetable Glycerine). Depending on the type of vape you want, be it more cloud, or smoother vape, etc. you would change how much of each of those main parts go into the mixture. 

People normally want a flavour to go along with the vape. I would add from a variety of flavours to the concoction. These flavours would range from something sweet, to fruity, to ones that taste like normal cigarettes. Most of the flavourings were harmless in their own, with most being simple flavour shots you could get at grocery stores or bulk barns. Others were concentrates mixed with a few other harmless ingredients. 

The last ingredient was the nicotine. It wasn't mandatory to have nicotine added to the bottle. There are many different "strengths" you can purchase, ranging from zero nicotine, to an extremely large amount (sometimes more then a regular cigarette). As others have mentioned, the nicotine is certainly a harmful chemical, and the vapes with in included should not be deemed "healthy". However, without that included, most vapes are relatively harmless. Of course what's even healthier then ingesting the PG and VG would be not vaping at all. 

I worked there for a couple of years, and I never vaped. I never smoked, so I felt no need to. It was a little odd being the only non-vaper, because vaping becomes a lifestyle of sorts. It's something a lot of people who begin vaping reaaaally get into. 

Bottom line though, the nicotine in the is essentially the worst part of vaping. Without that, it's truly not that bad. I mean, eating a Big Mac could probably prove to be worse for you then vaping without nicotine.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: Vaping is unhealthy compared to breathing in fresh air. It's healthy compared to breathing in cigarette smoke. It's healthy compared to inhaling aeresolized fat molecules from a deep fryer. It's all relative OP. 

The ELI5 answer is that vaping has not shown any long term health problems for users yet, but that this is still being studied closely. Vaping can help cigarette users quit smoking and it has none of the negative health effects that inhaling cigarette smoke does. People that switch to vaping to quit cigarettes can look forward to similar health levels as non smokers. 

While all of the ingredients in e-juice are approved for human consumption, there may be different health effects inhaling an aerosol of flavorings versus swallowing them. For example soda pop is okay to drink, but if you inhaled it, you would not find it agreeable and it could damage the lining of your lungs. While eating flavorings is healthy, the jury is out on effects of different flavorings on the lungs. 

A cigarette is consumed by burning it and inhaling the combusted gases, tars, ash, and chemicals released from combustion. Combustion isn't perfect and so a wide range of chemical compounds, many of which cause health problems are released. Vaping is not burning something, it is converting a liquid into an aerosol and inhaling it. This does not significantly change the chemical makeup of the aerosol versus the liquid juice. 

More details: 

The main materials are vegetable glycerin and polypropylene glycol. Both of these are FDA approved and safe for consumption and have no known health problems inhaling. 

The nicotine content varies from 0mg (none) to 24mg (around a cigarette strength). Nicotine is a drug, and in high concentrations it's a poison. This is mainly a concern for people handling 60-100mg/ml laboratory grade nicotine for mixing their own juice, but you wouldn't want a child to get a hold of a bottle of e-juice, or spill it on your shirt and ignore it. 

The main point of contention are the flavorings used to make the juice taste good to the user. The majority of these flavorings are USDA approved for human consumption, but the long term study of inhaling them is on-going. Most of the dangers you hear about from vaping products are a class of flavorings known to cause popcorn lung in high concentrations and prolonged exposures. To date there have been no instances of this occurring in any vaper, and the evidence of this occurring outside of factory conditions where workers spent hours a day breathing concentrated diacetyl in are anecdotal. Still though, better safe than sorry, and most vaporizer juice companies avoid these flavorings and volunteer laboratory results of their juice tests.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: [Serious]: So how does that work for cannabis which is vaporized fresh using convection heat?
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: I'm not going to say it's healthy. Vaping is definitely healiER than smoking a traditional cigarette. Compared to the thousand of chemicals in cigarettes, vape juice has only 4 or 5 (vegetable glycerin; propylene glycol; artificial flavoring; nicotine, if you choose; and some add artificial sweeteners). Not to mention that the wires that are used (kanthol) is the same wire that are used in your toaster. While the PG is one of the ingredients that are found in medical IV's, asthma inhalers, shampoo (a lot of day to day uses). You don't have all the carcinogens because you aren't actually burning anything. Believe it or not, vaping has been around since the 60s, but because of technology only being available to those who had the money to afford it. It's more readily available today because technology is in general. Just keep in mind that anything you put into your body is potentially harmful to you. The biggest point that I always made to people was that vaping is a healthier alternative to smoking.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: It probably isn't great. It is likely worse than not smoking anything, but is much better than smoking actual smoke. Unfortunately it hasn't been around long enough for there to be enough evidence to be definitive.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: I feel 100x better vaping than smoking cigs. Im not dead yet, and we are all but a blip in the universe..Have some fun while youre here. Take a chance-Colombus did!
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: There haven't been many studies on vaping since it's relatively new. A few weeks ago, Vice featured vaping (in a different context), but cited a federal study which found vaping to be 95% safer than smoking cigarettes. 

I vape myself. I know it can't be as harmless as breathing fresh air, but it's a safer alternative to smoking cigarettes. My doctor told me he looks at this way: cigarettes are known to have thousands of different chemicals in them, vaping e-liquid has 3 (glycerin, nicotine, natural/artificial flavors). 

So, I view it as the *much* lesser of two evils. 

Edit: here's a [study](_URL_2_) conducted by the U.K.'s health department on vaping.  And a [PDF](_URL_2_) from the Royal College of Physicians, going into detail about the benefits to vaping over cigarettes.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: Please understand that nicotine is not bad for you unless you take in too much -it can actually kill you. ....kind of like caffeine. Too many energy drinks and you're a gonner. Nicotine is actually used as a stimulant (medication) for certain human diseases. It's also used as a primary ingredient in termite eradication liquids. It frustrates me when people think that Nicotine is the agenda that kills....usually it is NOT the catalyst.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: The truth is that we don't really know. People are just now starting to hit the 10 year mark with vaping, so it might be 20 more years before we have a definitive answer.

That being said, it almost certainly has to be better than smoking. You'll be hard pressed to find any knowledgeable vaper who will say that vaping is completely harmless. For most of us it's about harm reduction.

The good news is that the legitimate studies support this assumption. Nicotine has passed the AMES test, which looks to see if a substance causes DNA mutations in bacteria, which points to it being a carcinogen. There are also a few more studies that show that it's 95% less harmful than smoking. The only real big unknown out there is the flavorings, but unflavored is an option. 

There are a lot of bogus studies out there, though. I remember the big formaldehyde study a few years back had taken the crappy CE4 tanks and fired them at over 5V for 90 seconds. I've built some stupid big coils and I've never gone above 4.3V, plus no human is going to inhale for 90 seconds. Using those test parameters there's no doubt a bunch of garbage was produced (probably from the tank melting).

At the end of the day you have to ask yourself if you're willing to take a risk that some unforseen major illness could be caused by vaping, or are you willing to stay with something that you know is going to kill you. I know the choice was easy for me.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: Well, since there is a lot of misinformation being spread here, let me clear the air.
Vaping is not harmful, despite the false positive studies.
There are 3 main ingredients in the liquid used for vaping. All three are used in your day to day life whether you vape or not. Propylene Glycol, Vegetable Glycerin, and just about any flavoring. Nicotine, being the fourth ingredient, is optional. Now, with vaping, nothing is burning, so let's get that ignorance out of the way. The liquid is atomizing, not burning. Think of it as the same way a dog machine works. Heated coil, liquid atomizes in to a vapor. With actual studies form credible sources done, vaping has been proven to be 99% safer than smoking and has been 95% effective is smoking cessation and harm reduction. Who is said this, American Lung Association, Royal College of Physicians, American Heart Association, and now even the CDC. 

 The scare tactic of vaping being harmful was a hype train implemented by the tobacco companies who are losing money and are so far behind the market when t comes to vaping that they are scurrying for a way to regain their losses.

  Now, to anyone that wants to claim otherwise, throw your questions at me and I can easily answer them. I have experience in the vaping industry and the medical field, so unlike the majority of people buying in to the "Vaping is as bad as smoking" hype, I know the reality and the truth behind it.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: The honest truth is that we don't know.

As someone else mentioned, it took years to measure and prove the negative effects of tobacco smoke (all smoke is carcinogenic) and although it seems that most ingredients in e-liquid and vapor (e-vapor is not smoke) are probably not carcinogenic its still not know if they could be harmful in the long term, as vaping is relatively new.

As a best guess it's probably much less harmful than smoking and not likely to cause cancer but might cause other lung/respiratory issues, especially if you're sensitive to that sort of thing. 

The dangers of nicotine are also not well know, it seems that nicotine itself is not carcinogenic, but like most drugs it is indeed a poison, but only in very large amounts. It also might promote the growth of tumors but not enough is known to confirm this either. Its addictive effects are well know and because if this it is probably best avoided, although nicotine itself is not the most dangerous part of smoking.    

Much like smoking, its probably not to start of you can avoid it. However if you're curious its most likely a much better alternative than the proven dangers of smoking.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: Source disclaimer: Extensive conversations with my mother-in-law, who is a 30-year Mayo Clinic nurse. Not published science. Personal experience. 

So, according to my source, while vaping definitely doesn't share the same chemical hazards as cigs, the medical community has most definitely seen an uptick in health related issues that happen to correlate with the newfound popularity of vaping. She says that almost daily..DAILY..they are admitting people with extreme shortness of breath and early signs of COPD. Almost every patient admitted with these symptoms have self identified as habitual vapors. After tests, they have consistently found residual fluid in the lungs of the patients. 

She described it as slowly but surely giving yourself "Pulmonary Edema" which will eventually lead to chronic COPD. Basically, you are slowly drowning yourself. 

As I said, this isn't published science yet, but she says she wouldn't be surprised if in a couple years you START to see published science on the negative health effects of vaping.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: There's great documentary by BBC Horizon  "E-Cigarettes: Miracle or Menace?". I urge everyone to watch it.

Vaping is MUCH healthier than smoking. There's almost immediate health improvement as you switch and it's pretty much no-brainer. BUT you tend to vape more often then you smoke as vaping is easier and more socially acceptable. And nobody really knows about all the flavouring  side effect could have. If you're smoker, switch to vaping as it will improve your health immensely. If you don't smoke - don't touch any of it.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: For what it's worth, I smoked cigs for about 8 years then switched to vaping for two and a half years. I was diagnosed with cancer on my tongue in june, and had to have half of my tongue cut out and replaced with flesh from my wrist. I used a small pen style vape for about half a year and used a big sub ohm box mod for 2 years.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: [This](_URL_3_) is worth a watch.  Not the whole picture, but definitely some good basic science here, and just a straightforward display of how some information is getting skewed when it comes to vaping.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: Is popcorn lung a real thing or did Facebook make that up? Because that sounded pretty not good.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: Nobody ever talks about teeth in the middle of all this?
Is vaping better for my teeth?
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: The short answer is we don't really know yet.

The longer answer is it's  question that many people care about significantly from either side, so they really want their conclusion to be upheld.  As a result, many of the "studies" cited are biased one way or another.

It's difficult to determine the longterm effects of something like vaping without, well, long enough time to test it.  Once we have better quality tests over longer durations (and done by impartial bodies), we will have a definitive answer to it.
question: Is vaping unhealthy? Ive read different articles, some that says it might be bad, and some that says its harmless.[removed] answer: In terms of healthiness? Smoking  <  Vaping  <  Neither
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: It's not always just fat "under the skin". A lot of fat is interstitial or spread throughout muscles and in between organs. Think of a nice fatty marbled kobe/wagyu ribeye steak. The fat is all interleaved between muscle fibers.

Now there is a lot of subcutaneous fat, but removing it also damages all the connective tissues between the skin and your body, its not as simple as "vacuuming out the fat".

Google for a cross section/MRI of an obese body and it'll show you where the fat deposits are spread around.

Edit: here's a link to an photo that shows the difference between where the fat is located on an obese vs regular profile. It's also visceral (inside your body cavity) fat that isn't something you can vacuum out either.

_URL_0_

edit2: there are quite a few people who are disturbingly interested in "dat thigh gap" on the slimmer cross section..

edit3: and for a very medically compelling answer to people asking "Well why can't you just remove the stuff under the skin that you can get to easily", taken from a comment below by /u/huphelmeyer:

 > "When more than 5,000 cc's of fatty aspirate are removed, the complication rate rises dramatically. Under these circumstances, massive fluid shifts can occur, which increase the potential for cardiac and pulmonary complications."

edit4: there are some very good more detailed answers in some of the other comments. my comment here is mostly focused around helping people realize that body fat is more complicated than just being "under your skin" and there's no easy way to *safely* remove it via surgery.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: When more than 5,000 cc's of fatty aspirate are removed, the complication rate rises dramatically. Under these circumstances, massive fluid shifts can occur, which increase the potential for cardiac and pulmonary complications.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Because this is an ELI5 and not a personal request for medical advice (one reason I think many doctors who see these threads and don't reply are concerned about) there are really four main factors, which some commenters have already mentioned.  But if you want the real answer you're gonna have to put up with the TL version without DR.

1) Anaesthetic risk is even more risky. Sedating/paralysing/analgesing someone is a balance of many factors. Forgive the pun but obesity puts the balance out of whack. The easiest part of that to understand is that you  physically have to keep the airway open against a person's body weight when they are entering/coming out of sedation(the machine does that in the middle), let alone the chemical/neurological aspects of keeping them safely "under".

2) Fat is a difficult tissue to work with. It is intricately connected to all its surrounding tissue, so even though you can separate it from the skin, it's something like how when you peel an orange the white pith always comes away with the segments. Plus fat is not even deposited in neat segments, it just looks that way because a lot of it will make up a layer, and, as others have mentioned, it also coats our internal organs for protection. There are blood vessels all through our fat. Even moreso than that, fat has an important hormonal role in the body, it is also a small source of stem cells, and performs other homeostatic functions (it's a buffer for chemicals and other nutrients we eat/store/release). 

3) Big surgery is a big deal, like running a marathon on no training. Literally the most invasive intervention we have in medicine. Even small wounds cause lots of inflammation, and when you divert fluid en masse from one part of the body to another (wound) site, you get the fluid shifts everyone keeps mentioning.  "Lasering" off the fat (cauterising, more like) still leaves charred unhappy tissue behind. And afterward, any surgery creates scar tissue - in a joint, in the abdominal cavity (sticky adhesions that can cause your bowels to twist on themselves and even cut circulation off) and yes, even track marks in fat. Any doctor will tell you the principles of treatment start with conservative (e.g. quitting smoking, dieting), then medical (nonsurgical interventions like medications or CPAP snoring machines) before surgical, with few exceptions such as broken bones. The media does not acurately reflect this decisionmaking process, which is done through talking WITH the patient, at all. But it is a cornerstone of good practice, one which makeover reality shows can decieve you does not exist.

4) Then, you have to recover from it. Some commenters have mentioned the psychological aspects of dramatic weight loss. It's more like, how would you deal with the probably dramatic body adaptations to sudden massive weight loss? People do not realise that plastic surgeons have a responsibility to leave a safe amount of fat on the body so that it continues to function as expected for the patient. Unlike amputation, which is obviously, very traumatic, and unlike small volume liposucton, the tissue loss you are asking about is not isolated. Plus the skin is our number 1 defensive barrier against infection, and now you go and compromise it all over. As I mentioned earlier, adipose (fat) plays a buffering role in the body, and the body continues to support the growth of adipose as well as form scar tissue wherever normal tissue integrity has been physically interrupted. The effect of sudden massive adipose loss has not been well studied, and in my honest medical opinion, it is not ethical to begin to do so at this time in history, despite those who I imagine will reply to tell me otherwise. A myriad of terrible complications are all theoretically probable from the surgery you are thinking of. So, it isn't a thing.

Edit: paragraphs as requested - sorry I wrote it in my phone and didn't double-enter.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: The body will react adversely to a sudden change. It's for this reason too that people who are fasting never go for a buffet on finishing it. Instead they start slowly with liquids then light food before they can return to their normal diets. The human body needs to get conditioned. A sudden loss of fat might end up killing the person.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Kind of a tangent; but can anyone explain why liposuctions seem so violent!? There is a shit load of bruising and watching a surgery was like watching a doctor murder fat with a tube!
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I'm not a doctor or expert on the matter. However I could tell you that I got an abdominoplasty and liposuction on my sides when I was 24.  I was 240 at the time and 5 foot 9 inches. I'm also a male, where a lot of the patients in this particular area are male.

The procedures were expensive and pretty invasive in my eyes. However, I was dealing with really emotional stuff after a huge breakup after a long relationship so I was pretty vulnerable. I ended up getting the procedure done by the same doctor whome I paid to perform breast enlargement on the same girlfriend who just left me.

I had to get the approval of both my psychiatrist and therapist who said I was of sound emotional mind to get the procedure. Now, I'm getting my masters in mental health therapy and I know what to say and I realize now it was a mistake.

Anyways, sorry for getting offtrack. The after procedure healing for me, even for someone who isn't 500+ pounds, was very painful and taxing. I had to get two pumps on either side of my abdomen to suck out blood, make sure sites were clean, not to mention not being able to move and risk of infection. Luckily this didn't happen to me but I imagine these are big concerns with people very obese.

The other main issue is that this doesn't teach the patients anything. These people who would get liposuction will likely just regain the weight if they don't show their doctor they can lose the weight and keep it off for a period of time.

I'm an anecdotal account of this. I ended up regaining all the weight and undoing every procedure I had done within a year and a half. I'm embarrassed of myself. Basically I have a scar larger and thicker than a c section scar going across the whole front of my waist and on top of that I'm a male, so I get lots of questions whenever my shirt lifts up accidentally and reveals it. I'm ashamed of the decision I made, not being dedicated to weight loss and choosing a shortcut where I ended up worse then before.

Anyways, I know this is a more personal account and may not answer your question completely, but maybe it can give you some first person insight in what can happen when someone like me makes a stupid decision and isn't ready for the responsibility of what these types of surgeries entail.

Have a great day.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Fat is all over the body, and each chunk of fat has access to blood. It would be like performing 100's of amputations at once. And each of these amputations has a ton of risks. Patient won't survive that.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Surgeon's Assistant here, with experience in Plastics and Massive Weight loss:

The quick answer is fluid / electrolyte balance. When you remove a ton of fat at once, you seriously upset their fluid  &  electrolyte levels, and if you take too much (the total amount you can take at once varies by state, but is measured in liters), they can go into "bounce" where the bodies chemical levels do not balance out, resulting in patient death.

This has happened many times before, and is why there is now a state mandated limit to how much adipose tissue can be removed in a single go.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: The other problem is that adipose tissue is also highly vascular. Fat is actually stored inside vacoule compartments in cells, its not like it is free floating in your body. All of this fat is still in cells,which is in tissues which are highly vascularized, and that bleed like hell. What surgeons do to mitigate this when they are doing a lipo is to use some sort of local alpha adrenergic drug (ie: epinephrine)  to vasoconstrict the little artieries and also alot of cauterization to burn them shut but you can only do so much of that before you are dealing with a patient bleeding out on the table. And the kicker to all of this is that although liposuction brings about an aesthetic improvement, on average it does nothing to modify obese patients insulin resistance and cardiovascular disease risk. So the cost benefit is quite shit, especially when you compare it to something like bariatric surgery.

EDIT: I realize now that my explanation may have been less than accessible so I'm more than willing to clarify anything
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: You have to look at it from a psychological view.  Being 500+ lbs is not normal for a human to maintain and live.  If doctors just cut out 250 of those lbs nothing is stopping the person from still consuming just as much to get back up to 500+ lbs.

So mentally a healthier way to approach the problem is introducing the person to self control, food management, and exercise.  Extreme changes for humans does not usually pan out well, mentally and/or physically. Taking a step by step approach will teach the person to become more focused, disciplined, and determined.

This is mostly a psychological issue, but there is a biological reason as well.  I am no expert by no means and you would need someone who knows something about anatomy to tell you the side effects of removing fat cells and how fat cells grow at extreme levels.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Skin has limited elasticity. What happens when they balloon up again?
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Fat cells grow large with the accumulation of more fat, but they don't divide and make more cells. If you remove the cells, fat can't be stored in that place as well.  There is more risk associated with fat around the organs than in fat under the skin, but the organ fat is more difficult to remove.  Remove the fat under the skin, and then all of the excess energy needs to get stored around the organs - not safe.  
Fat storage problems are then coupled with the difficulty of anesthesia on an obese person due to a difficult airway, excess pressure on the chest due to weight, and the cardiovascular complications of obesity.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: That would kill the patient. All that fat has blood vessels running through it, they would lose too much fluid and have a heart attack
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: 2 big simple problems to consider.

1. If you've ever gone to the dentist, after the novacane wears off, you know how much it hurts? Now imagine that 90% of your skin feels that way.

2. The skin is the strongest barrier preventing you from getting an infection. By doing it all at once, you're creating a separation between a large amount of surface area that can get infected. Another easy analogy. Try tinting your entire car without getting a single air bubble or piece of dust on the first shot. If you don't get it right on the first shot, your car is at risk of dying and never running again.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: There are two main ways fat is stored in the body: subcutaneously (just beneath the skin), and viscerally (in the cavity surrounding the organs). Liposuction can only remove subcutaneous fat, but in morbidly obese individuals a large portion of this fat is stored viscerally. Even if one *could* remove all of the fat surgically, that would be an extremely complex and invasive procedure, and it could put the patient at greater risk (as others have said).
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Not the main reason, but another contributing factor that I've yet to see mentioned is that people who are extremely obese are tricky to operate on. Putting them under with anesthesia is extremely risky, and there's an incredibly high chance of them dying on the table. Therefore, it's better to have them lose weight via diet changes, and then do surgery to deal with the flabby skin.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: On a similar note, why can't there be a service to lock up obese people (with their consent) and give them water and vitamin supplements and let them starve away the fat? It could even be labelled as a medical procedure since it might be necessary for their own health, thereby allowing them enough medical leave from their jobs to attempt it.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Also there are a ton of blood vessels that run all through there. You gotta be careful what you suck out cause you could rupture them all and kill the patient; especially one so big
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Even if it were physically possible to remove the fat via surgery that wouldn't be necessary if the person is going to follow up with bypass surgery and an improved diet. Morbidly obese people who have a successful surgery and stick to the diet lose weight very quickly. 

Putting them through both gastric bypass and fat trimming surgery at the same time could make their recovery more difficult rather than speed things along.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Fat is a collection of living cells, blood, and water. If you remove a lot of fat, you lose all the blood and water with it.

Thinking about this another way, if you stand up too fast after not drinking a lot of water, you feel dizzy, and might even pass out. That's because your heart (your engine) isn't getting enough blood to keep your neck arteries full. Your arteries send distress signals to your nervous system, which tell your brain to shut down. This causes you to automatically lie flat and gravity gets blood to your head. 

Similarly, if you remove a lot of fat all at once, you are effectively creating a dangerous shift in the blood, water, nutrient balance.  Your total body volume shifts dangerously away from what it can cope with.  

In fact, after any large surgery, the body loses a lot of water and nutrients from the stress of the operation, sweating, and incidental bleeding. That's why you usually get fluids before, during, and/or after surgery.

In California, you may only take 10 pounds of fat at a given liposuction appointment. This is to protect patients and doctors from taking too much fat, shifting the blood/water balance, and thus, putting a life in jeopardy.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: In addition to what everyone else is saying, fat also acts as an endocrine organ, and secretes a surprising number of hormones.  Removing too much could cause a pretty major shock and increase the likelihood of complications post-surgery.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Because it's not just fat, there's other stuff as well - like muscle and veins. Other things to consider is how the body will react and if it can handle having that sudden fat being gone.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Don't know if anyone answered OP about this yet, but fat or adipose tissue as it's known as has a lot of vascularisation. That means in order to keep the fat cells alive they have to be fed with oxygen and nutrients and have waste products taken away like any other cells in the human body, which means that they need blood vessels running through them as well (up to seven miles of blood vessels for every pound of fat!). 

If you just cut open an obese person and started removing that fat tissue, that also would cause a lot of bleeding as well. Remove too much tissue, and you could have major problems with their blood pressure, or they could simply bleed out, or go into cardiac arrest. Bottom line, the risks associated with just physically removing the fat are too great in comparison to the benefits.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: it's likely that they would die on the operating table, because it'd mean removing the mayority of the body mass all at once, when anesthesia alone is likely enough to kill someone of that size, that's why most doctors won't operate on someone who's 500 pounds, even if that means that they might die, because the risk of them dying is WAY too big from the anesthesia alone, let alone the stress you'd be putting on the body with that operation
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Just because you remove the fat from the excessive areas, you still caused significant damage to your organs by gaining all that weight. I watched a CABG (coronary artery bypass graft) and this fella was obese and his heart had so much fat on it, so enlarged and just excessively huge. The surgeon was telling me how he loves his job but he always fears that something as excessive as heart surgery doesn't even motivate people to change.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I have a friend who is 500+ pounds and the reason a doctor can't just go nuts and start cutting out the fat is because the amount of anesthesia it takes someone that size could end up killing them. It's a risk that doctors will not take. My friend ended up getting surgery but she had to lose over 100 pounds first
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: OR Nurse here:
Trying to sedate and keeping a person alive of that size is a hell of a task. In fact, the hospital I work at has criteria that excludes morbidly obese people from non-essential surgery.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: like the expensive cuts of meat, the fat isnt draped over a morbidly obese person like a coat, its marbled in their tissue. You can't just cut it off because its between everything and in everything.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I don't know. Why can't fat people just cut out fat and extra calories from their diet?
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Man, why were you even watching that crap?
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Fats, especially saturated and trans fatty acids, take very long for your body to metabolize vs unsaturated/omerga-3 fats (that is because the altter has alkenyl bonds, which are more readily oxidized, whereas saturated fats are all alkyl chains, which take much longer to metabolize).

Because of the accumulation of "bad" fats (they're not necessarily bad, just worse for you in general than unsaturated/cis fats), they can absorb readily into various parts of the body. It was mentioned the comparison of a marble steak, where fat is layered in between muscle tissue, but it can also build up in heart valves, inside of blood vessels/arteries to form blockage, and also inside of organs. The liver has a very fibrous sponge-like texture that can asborb a lot of fat. Fatty liver occurs when too much fat is consumed, or something else is consumed that damages the liver's ability to metabolize things (such as in long term alcohol abuse).

The treatment of the severely obese needs to be gradual and can't be done in a drastic surgery like that, which will only get the "surface fat" and not the buildup of cholesterol and various fatty acids inside of organs and arteries. I'm not sure exactly how approved it is, but I heard for the severely obese, it can be treated using IV administration of pharmaceutical drugs. I heard that currently, trials are going underway for the IV administration of fucoxanthin with piperine to selectively induce apoptosis of lipocytes (fat cells--that is, cells which accumulate all those fatty acids mentioned above).

One could always even make the semisynthetic analogue O,O-diacetyl-fucoxanthin to increase fat solubility and bioavailability, and it should not only increase potency but molecular mass, so it'd not only be more potent by dose, but making it from fucoxanthin would actually add mass to your final product. So you'd get a more potent drug for an overall cheaper cost by weight. (same pattern seen in morphine vs heroin, THC vs THC-O-acetate, etc). It would release two molecules of acetic acid and one molecule of fucotxanthin.

Even better, O,O-dipropanoyl-fucoxanthin should increase potency even more, similar in Dipropanoylmorphine vs heroin. O,O-diaminoacetyl (glycinoyl prodrugs) would be even better because glycine is highly fat soluble (much more than proanoic acid or acetic acid), and on top of that, the nitrogen amine on glycine would be protonated, and so the glycinoyl ester should bond more strongly to the oxgyen molecule on fucoxanthin, whreas in acetyl/propanoyl groups they are all O-acyl carbon chains, which has a like charge to the O- and would repel more (thus cleaving off faster and absorbing less into the system).

If you wanted to be extra fancy you could use the fatty acids in fish oil as a prodrug group, and make O,O-di-eicosapentaenoyl-fucoxanthin. This would release a molecule of fucoxanthin for every two molecules of Eicosapentaenoic acid.
 Being actual lipids, the EPA prodrug chain obviously would increase bioavailability a really significant amount. At that point due to all the extra bulk it'd be probably less potent by dose, but manufacturing fucoxanthin into Di-EPA-fucoxanthin could be done with nearly 100% conversion, so the conversion would add a massive increase of mass in the final product, which would even out decreased potency.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: They don't do it for people who are extremely overfat because those people have to learn what a healthy lifestyle means for them and also build the discipline to maintain that.  The vast majority of people in that position simply don't understand diet/exercise and/or don't have the discipline to eat healthy and move.  Simply cutting off the fat and skin will see them in the same position again in a short while.  

Also, whether you cut someone with a rusty dagger or a super high tech laserbeam, damage (trauma) is damage.  Obviously one is worse than the other, but its a matter of degree.  In general one should try to limit the amount of damage they sustain.  Also people who are overfat don't exactly tend to be the healthiest, and may have trouble recovering from so much damage all at once.  There is an inherent risk involved in surgery, having to cut out the fat is addition surgery and being relatively unhealthy simply makes it worse.

Finally fat is a hormone producing organ.  We need it to live.  Cutting hundreds of pounds of it all at once will cause a significant shift in the body's overall chemistry which could cause fatal complications.  Combine this with the above factors and you have a very dangerous situation with perhaps very little long term benefit.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I wish it was this easy. I've been overweight since elementary school. I'm not morbidly obese or anything, but I'm a 5'7" female and am at about 200 lbs right now. I was pretty consistent around 165 while working in fast food for 4 years but i ballooned after getting my degree and getting a desk job. I have tried numerous diets and work out routines with varying degrees of success and nothing lasting long term. It is really depressing when you diet and exercise really well for a month, hop on the scale to see your progress and haven't lost any weight at all. 

I found out as an adult I have hypothyroidism, pernicious anemia and non-alcholic fatty liver disease. My job stresses me out alot and I used to come home and drink a beer because I LOVE beer, but my ability to enjoy alcohol was taken from me at 22 T_T 

I know i need to try to lose weight in order to improve my health, but its like when you have tried so many things and none of them work you kind of just give up inside. If it was this easy people would be lined up around the block, but that wont remove the fat from my liver
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: There was a woman that worked at a company I delivered to years ago. She looked like Jabba the Hutt. Suddenly she quit her job. About a year later, a new girl starts working there. I ask about her and found out it was Jabba, hundreds of pounds lighter, she looked much happier, younger, and unrecognizable to the old person. She had some sort of surgeries done but I don't know which type. Anyway, the point is that the miracles of modern medicine can turn Jabba the Hutt into a beautiful woman.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: You don't get obese without eating your way there. Cutting it off of people wouldn't result in a permanent solution, they'd be right back to gaining weight.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: OR maybe they could eat less,work out little more?
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: If you remove "a lot" of fat all at once the odds of pulmonary issues are pretty high.  Exactly how much is "a lot" most would say over 5,000cc's or basically much more than say 10pounds and you are getting into risky territory and when you are suggesting removing HUNDREDS of pounds of fat you are now talking beyond risky to downright lethal to the patient.  

Why is it so risky/lethal?  Fat has a purpose, its not just trash in the body making you look bad.  To that end it will cause massive fluid imbalance issues which will almost assuredly cause various systems within your body to have much more fluid than normal in them after serious fat removal like you are suggesting.  
Is it possible to survive such a surgery?  While we don't have hard proof either way I'd say its "probably" likely assuming the patient was otherwise healthy and you had cardio-pulmonary specialists on hand to IMMEDIATELY start treatment of the issues that arise.  Though this would in a realistic setting NEVER happen simply because the odds of this failing and killing the patient are exceedingly high and this is not it will kill you at somepoint in the future from a heart attack like obesity, this is literally kill you within hours or minutes of the surgery kinda thing... likely before the surgery is even complete.  

Its also important to realize that fat people don't have a lot of extra fat cells, instead there fat cells are simply larger. When using surgical removal your body will regrow (or atleast attempt to) those fat cells since to be completely blunt your body 100% needs fat cells to function and be health BUT obviously too much/too big and its clearly an issue.  To this end excess skin removal has to wait until after the patient has recovered AND stabilized there weight to some degree.  

TL;DR, serious fat removal of more than just a handful of pounds of fat will cause serious medical issues realistically including death.  

Full disclosure, some of my statements are overt simplifications for the sake of explaining things and not 100% scientifically accurate nor should they be treated as such.  Further the topic at hand is discussing theoretical procedures nobody has real data on besides "if its bad at this amount, its probably much worse at higher amounts".
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Individuals who are obese have two types of fat: subcutaneous (under the skin) and visceral (inside the abdominal cavity). Liposuction involves removal of fat that is under the skin, but does nothing to address fat that lies underneath the muscles. To remove fat in the abdominal cavity, it would be nesecarry to cut through muslce and work around the internal organs. Removal of fat from other areas of the body(arms, legs) also includes bleeding and infection risks as skin and vessels are severed. So could a surgeon remove both types of fat if they really wanted to? Probably, but it would be very risky.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: TL;DR: core fat and lasting effects.

The reason is lifestyle and core fat. 

Sure, you could cut off the fat BUT you couldn't do that to the fat in the heart and liver etc.. ONLY exercise can get rid of that hence the lifestyle change. 

If you cut off that fat then fatties like me would just get op after op. The lifestyle change KEEPS the fat off and rids it from the core. Meaning overall health is achieved rather than aesthetic happiness.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: The fat itself is not the problem, it is a symptom of the problem which is an unhealthy lifestyle, whether that is based on complicating health conditions, poor decision-making, or psychological and emotional issues.  So apart from the risks of such a surgery, simply removing a lot of fat would not be a permanent fix.  It's analogous to cleaning out a hoarded house-- all that excess got there for reasons and the reasons have to be addressed for a true recovery.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Several reasons:

- very difficult to put under anesthesia, with their weight causing breathing problems.


- there is more than surface fat causing the person to be large, but fat on the orgins.


- fat contains lots of small blood vessels, so lots of bleeding in surgery


- skin itself has terrible blood supply so huge risk of infection.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Fat has a lot of capillaries. A large blood supply.  When a person has maxi liposuction the fluid imbalance  can cause  heart failure. Also the disruption to the tissue causes more swelling. As for just cutting it out I think long incisions have more chance of complications.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: There's also if I remember correctly a lot of capillaries and other small blood vessels in the fat section that makes it even harder to operate and more at risk of bleeding.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Because their hearts will be so efficient that they will literally turn into superman/superwoman.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Why can't people eat a healthy diet and exercise and not ask for miracles?
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Liposuction is a safe, **optional**, cosmetic procedure. It can not, and is not, best practice to treat obesity for a number of reasons. The most common technique, tumescent liposuction, uses several liters of water pumped just under the skin, with a mixture of lidocaine (a numbing agent) and epinephrine (basically adrenaline). The fat is then sucked out through long, narrow, tubes. If you've ever seen it on TV-you know the doctor uses a series of strong and quick strafing motions to essentially 'rip' the available fat away. 

The danger comes from a few key effects that *can* happen, but very rarely do. (Less then 10 reported deaths from 1993-2008 per the FDA). These are: blot clot, bradycardia (very slow heartbeat), hypotension  (very low blood pressure) and pulmonary edema. That's fluid collection in the lungs; nasty way to go.

Most of these deaths are due to drug interactions in the body. Too much fluid around your chest and you form an edema, too much around your legs and you throw a clot. Too much lidocaine and your heart stops or your pressure bottoms out. Then there is the normal surgery risks: infection, adverse effects to general anesthesia, narcotic drug overdose, as well as certain age/health related effects. Like poor Donda West who bled out and arrested because of poor health mixed with lack of proper after-care monitoring. 

So, for a 600lb person, who is presumably in terrible cardiovascular health, trying to suck **all** the fat away via TL would be incredibly dangerous- if not outright fatal.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I'm speaking from a strictly functional observation here, but I imagine that finding a home for all of the stuff in between is a part of it.

It's not just a matter of cutting out the fat and excess skin, you also need to remember that the body was that previous size. 

Think about a limousine; they don't come out of the factory that way. Somebody has to take a car, cut it in half, add in some material to fill the gap, and lengthen the parts that run the distance (I.E. - Fuel lines, exhaust, driveshaft, etc.)

To perform a massive "fat-ectomy", to cut out excess fat and skin, would be like making a limousine in reverse. Blood vessels, nerve endings, organ placement, all of that needs to be adjusted to accommodate the changes. The problem is finding the room in the skinnier body for the heavier parts.

That's just one issue, there are many more. The massive shock to the body from such a massive surgery could easily be lethal. The necessary blood volume in the body would change drastically, and I imagine anemia, or even it's opposite condition, would be massively exacerbated. Infection, in my mind, would probably be the biggest issue. You're talking about long, deep incisions that run from the skins surface deep into the body, creating, not just avenues, but nice, clear, superhighways for infection.

That's why it's Lipo-"suction"; they emulsify the fat into a more liquid state and suck it out in a far less invasive process.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Another factor I haven't seen mentioned (albeit, its not the most important) is the endocrine disruption after a massive removal of fat tissue.  Leptin is secreted from fat cells and suppresses hunger in healthy individuals.  It is meant to encourage those with more energy stored in their thighs and around their guts to eat less in order to maintain optimal body weight.  I think the malfunction of this pathway is also believed by some to be a key factor in obesity, but someone will have to fact check me on that. 

I'm assuming that the reduction of a strong signal of appetite suppression to a much smaller one would lead to feelings of extreme hunger, severe overeating, and possible increased fat storage until the body adjusts.  This can actually be observed in some rapid weight loss diets.  The dieter initially loses a ton of weight but gains it all back and sometimes a little bit more as the body attempts to bring body weight back up to what it believes is homeostasis (equilibrium/balance)

I guess there could be hormone treatment available for postop therapy.  I don't know-
Just googled it and it exists.  Guess it's still relevant to the discussion though
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I find anytime the question includes the word "simply", e.g. "why can't they simply...", or "it should be simple to..." *that's* the reason why. It's because the asker has glossed over the part that answers their question with the assumption that that thing is *simple*.

You have connective tissues that need to be taken care of, new blood vessels that are now bleeding, massive shifts in weight, mass, and fluid distribution that the body now has to re-jig itself to make use of, and so on. 

Generally, the more drastic the thing you're doing, the less you can do it, or the less time you have to be doing it. Removing entire parts of the inside of your body is a pretty big modification not just on the table, but for the person's body afterward. Better to lose the weight naturally and in a healthy way than risk an unnecessary death or complications.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: The real answer is that no surgery comes without risks. When you perform these surgeries you're removing heavily vascularised tissue which can result in a lot of blood loss and adverse events. Secondly obese people are generally very unhealthy to begin with, attempting to operate on them when they are at the peak of their unhealthy life style is asking for complications including infections, inability to fight infections, inability to heal properly and sometimes even Inabiltiy to come off the ventilator. The process of getting a 600 lb patient down in weight is caloric restriction, and if that fails some sort of restrictive gastric surgery which carries much less complications than Lipo or panniculectomies. If the patient has chronic infections from pendulous fat then we can wntertain removing the tissue.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I haven't seen anyone mention this: liposuction patients almost always gain all the weight back. The body has decided it needs 400 lbs of fat, after the surgery it notices it is short and will rapidly expand what fat that remains to get back to its "goal" level leaving you hideously perportioned. They do perform gastric bypass on people that size. The operation was originally intended to make it hard to eat large amounts. But determined people can stretch out their stomach and stay fat. Lap band works bc the stomach itself produces one of the hormones involved in deciding your "goal" body fat. Less hormone. Less fat.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: An issue people haven't touched on is

 > The person would still have to get bypass and watch their diet of course

I know this is a somewhat controversial subject. But the fact is that someone isn't gettiing up to that weight unless they have severe psychological issues. The weight is a symptom and one which will just rebound if the underlying cause isn't properly addressed. It shouldn't be done with surgery until someone has demonstrated that they're able to relate to food in a more psychologically healthy way. Otherwise the combination of overeating and the surgery would be decreasing their heatlh.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: The main reason is that fat is vascular. To supply blood to all that extra tissue the body increases the total volume of blood that specific body contains. The amount of fat taken out during each procedure, which is determined by each State's medical board and probably no more than 10% of body weight or so, is determined so as not to risk taking away too much blood from the system at one time.

Edit: basically for the same reason you can only give so much blood or serum per visit to the blood bank.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Humans are not designed in layers. Our fat is weaved within and around our muscle fibers as well as surrounded by nerves various cartilage tendons veins and bones. What you are suggesting would cause the person to bleed out or die from infection from having full open body wounds. Once you're that fat, it is not easy to go back.

Tl;dr once you go fat you never go back
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: So, what we take out by liposuction, we measure in liters.  Max. we take out is 10 L. 20 to 25% of that liquid is blood. 2 to 2.5 L of blood. Average human has up to 6 L of the precious liquid, so... You do the math. Its bad.

Besides, large ones have all sorts of problems with anaesthesia, healing, infections, chronic diseases as well, so...
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: You'd have to consider the over all blood volume and pressure. You can't just remove a large chunk of person and expect the organs to cope with a sudden change like that. It certainly isn't a trivial procedure anyway, and the risk to life - especially given the patient's bad general health and the difficulty of safely anaesthetising them - would be pretty high.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: You have to lose a certain amount of weight first so you have less of a risk of stroke or heart attack. The fat would also grow back without any modification to the digestive system/eating habits, necessitating dangerous repeat surgeries. I'm sure there are more reasons - I'm just thinking of what I've seen on My 600 Lb Life.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I've seen a lot of good reasons but this hasnt been mentioned. Fat cells in subcutaneous fat tissue is not as endocrinally active as fat cells in/in between organs. A lot of the health effects of obesity comes from visceral fat that induces insulin resistance, increased blood fat levels and inflammation. - >  cardiovascular disease
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Assuming they could do that, would it really solve the obesity of the person? If someone manages to get to 600 pounds its their unhealthy lifestyle that needs corrected, not surgery. I imagine they would just gain it right back if they didn't decide to change for good.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Because they'd die, homes! 

But really, the fat in our body acts as a protective element for our organs. However, when an individual is obese, that fat just excessively accumulates around organs and becomes interwoven with capillaries, muscles, portions of the organs, etc.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: This doesn't address any of the root causes of people being 500 lbs. If this procedure was technically possible, people who do not address their over eating life style will just put all the weight right back on, making it utterly pointless.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: Looks like the top commenters covered the important points. You might be interested to know, however, that this is *sort of* done for people with extreme amounts of belly fat. Panniculectomy. The panniculus is the bulk of fat on the belly.

_URL_1_
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: The same reason why liposuctions can't be performed "at once", the body needs time to adjust to it, essentially, missing part of itself. 

Also, general anesthesia is pretty ruthless towards the body(been there, done that).
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: In general you should always remember that in medical science there is very little things that can be summarized as "just do this". Everything is complicated in it.
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I think one reason is that they are not healthy enough to survive the anesthesia required for surgery. Their hearts are under enormous stress
question: Why can't surgeons simply cut out the fat and excess skin or perform extreme liposuction to people that weigh 500+lbs?[removed] answer: I always wondered why they don't just wire their jaws shut. It would seem to accomplish the same effect
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Stories of cops being called on open carriers are common.  That's why the vast majority of people who carry, do so concealed.

However, it's pretty easy to tell the difference between an open carrier and an active shooter:

Open carriers must have their guns holstered or otherwise out of hand, by law.  Walking around with a gun in your hand is an illegal act of brandishing under every state law I've ever seen.

Among the few people who habitually open carry, many also make a point of dressing nicely, because they find it greatly decreases the chances that people call the cops.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: If it's holstered, they're obviously not about to start a mass shooting. I understand that he could quickly pull it out and start shooting, but anyone I walk past on the sidewalk could push me into traffic. 

But personally, if I see an open carry, my first assumption is that it's a cop.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: > Especially in light of the fact that it would be illegal to yell "FIRE" in a crowded theater, would someone who had a natural, panicky reaction to seeing a firearm in plain view in the grocery store and who yelled "GUN!" be subject to the same kind of punishment that someone yelling FIRE in a theater would?

 > Who, legally, if anyone, would be responsible for a mass hysteria situation in this instance? The open carrier or the person who yelled GUN?

The only reason you would yell "FIRE!" in a crowded theater if there was no fire would be to incite panic, which is why it's a crime. 

A person lawfully open-carrying in a venue that has not prohibited it isn't breaking any laws and can't be held liable for someone else's over-reaction. As to whether the person freaking out is liable is a question for someone with more legal acumen than I. 

As for how can you tell, you can't definitively, but neither could you tell if the guy with a knife on his belt is going to pull it out and start stabbing people in the neck.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: People can say "it depends on how they're carrying it", but the reality is you can't know. That's why if you open carry somewhere, chances are you're going to have the cops called on you.

This is why I think open carry is a bad idea, it does absolutely nothing except make the 2/3rds of the population who aren't familiar with guns terrified. If you see someone walking down the street with an AK47 strapped to their back, you're probably not going to think "oh, he's just on his way to pick up some milk". 

Regarding the panic, when someone with a gun is seen you aren't going to scream about it, you're going to run away as quietly as possible as to not attract the attention of the guy with the gun. People call the police from a safe hiding spot from open carriers all the time, and it's perfectly legal to do so.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Unfortunately, by definition an Active shooter is one who is actively shooting.  You may as well ask "how can you spot a criminal before they actually break the law? "  

That being said,  those who are practicing open carry legally will have their weapons holstered or slung.   You don't have to aim a weapon at someone to be brandishing it.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: OP, I am a gun owner, and I sympathize with your position because I'm in that same position, too. We all are.

There are millions of weapon permit holders in the United States. We carry for various reasons, but almost all would cite 'personal protection' at the top of the list. Many carry a firearm in rural areas where it can be dangerous by yourself. We might have to deal with rabid animals, predators, or even people while tens of miles away from help. We just carry a firearm as a daily part of our lives and don't take it off in public because things could go just as badly at the 7-11 as they could in the woods.

An active shooter is a completely different situation. I'll lump gang violence in here as well, for good measure. Anyone like that is going to have an aggressive posture about them. They might be yelling, walking/running fast, making sharp movements of aggression at another party.

Your average concealed carrier is likely much like myself. I wear nice khakis and boots, plaid over shirts, and my firearm on my hip (in my case, with the gun underneath my shirt so I don't offend or startle anyone not used to being around firearms). I'll probably be shopping at a local store calm, collected, and likely pushing a cart full of goods. I'm just minding my own business and living my life.

I appreciate that you're interested in learning more about the differences. Please realize that 'gun people' are not bad people. There sure is a loud minority of gun owners that absolutely ~~espouse~~ live up to the stereotypes, but there are likely many more people with firearms that you never see or hear from. We are just going about our daily lives while carrying an extra tool to ensure that we always make it home to the ones we love.

**tl;dr-** It comes down to posture and intent. People going about their business will appear as such, someone looking to make trouble will be aggressive or suspicious looking. There are outliers for sure, but that's where it gets into "we can't prepare for everything" territory.

**edit:** Added tl;dr, changed espouse to 'live up to'
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: An "active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet" is not active nor a shooter. 

When everyone carries guns it is nonsensical to yell "he's got a gun!" And no one would likely react if you did, any more than folks anywhere would react if you yelled "OMG look behind you!"
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: > Who, legally, if anyone, would be responsible for a mass hysteria situation in this instance? The open carrier or the person who yelled GUN?

Why would the open carrier (not doing anything illegal) be responsible for anything someone else did?

Assuming open carry is legal where you live: 

If someone is carrying a gun in a holster, go about your business. 

 If someone is carrying a gun stuck in their waistband, I would immediately leave the area, but otherwise not worry about it.

If someone is carrying a gun in their HAND, I would immediately leave the area and call police.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: The legal word here is "brandishing" and there are brandishing laws in most states. Its when the carry of a weapon becomes threatening. In most cases the officer will just arrest anyone accused of brandishing a weapon and let the legal system sort it out. Obviously the problem arises of when does a carry become a brandish and how can you be prepared. The answer is really that you can't. In your situation where a guy yells "Oh my god, run. Hes got a gun" - anyone who shot the guy would also be arrested and have to prove they didn't commit murder and the guy who yelled it... well I dont know. Hes an ass for sure though.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: If the open carrier is wearing a handgun, then it will remain holstered at all times. Gun in hand would be illegally brandishing the firearm, or else preparing to lawfully use it in defense. 

If the open carrier is wearing a rifle, I believe most states that allow this form of carrying require that the gun is always slung behind the back, with the safety on. 

In either case, it should be noted that their behavior is safe and follows the letter of the law. Perhaps someone could find a counter example, but I've never heard of a mass shooter exercising such prudence. They generally don't care since they don't have lawful intentions. Furthermore, a mass shooter isn't very likely to give very much time between exposing their weapon and using it; they probably won't be on an errand run while they choose to shoot everyone.


As for yelling "GUN!" upon seeing one: these stories pop up every once in a while on subs like /r/CCW and the reaction can vary quite a bit. Some stores will ask the carrier to leave, and the carrier will generally choose not to go there anymore. This is usually the case if a bystander doesn't incite panic but instead just complains very strongly about the carrier. 

Some stories posted have indicated that the authorities will in fact side with the carrier, as long as they are following the law, and sometimes charge the one yelling "gun!" for inciting panic.

TL;DR: 
If it's not in the carrier's hands, then it is very likely to be a lawful case of open carrying. Assess the situation for a second before you decide whether to warn others about it. Mass shooter probably isn't going to be filling a grocery cart with green beans right before going on their rampage, and inciting panic could sometimes mean charges against you rather than against the open carrier.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I spoke with a few friends of mine that are allowed to carry concealed.
They said, they wouldn't open carry..... they'd simply continue to carry concealed. It's just easier that way.  If I had a choice I wouldn't open carry, it draws too much attention. Just as I don't wear a Bluetooth headset while walking around.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Carrying a weapon (on a sling, in a holster) is far different than actually *brandishing* it. The term "open carry" can be confusing to people who don't use guns, but it does not mean running around with their hands on the grip, ducking and dodging around corners Die Hard style.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I had a guy in my neighborhood get shot for that exact reason. He was open carrying (although it was an airsoft rifle for vermin) and was shot by police. It wasn't ever noted if he was acting aggressive or not. So I think the point is that there isn't a strict black and white explanation.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: [in case anybody is curious about their jurisdiction](_URL_0_)
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: The same way you can distinguish someone lawfully driving a vehicle from someone about run over a crowd of innocent people but hasn't done it yet.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: point your finger at the person you suspect really fast and go "hey why do you have a gun?!?!". the lawful open carry person cannot shoot you legally and will show you his permit, the active shooter will proceed to shoot you
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: For the British guys and gals saying they can't even imagine this, all I'm picturing is David Bowie's "I'm afraid of Americans" music video.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: The same way you tell the difference between someone who is driving a car legally, and a drunk driver who hasn't gotten drunk yet.

My point is that there's really absolutely zero reason anyone should be alarmed by someone conducting a legal activity.  Until the person IS an active shooter, why would anyone be worried about it?  That's like saying you're worried by bars that have parking lots, because obviously it allows drunk driving murderers to have access to their cars where they drink. You're right... But it also allows responsible people to have access to their cars when they want to go home after having some bar food and watching a football game. 

Our society is full of good guys and bad guys.  You tell the difference by what they're doing... Not what they might do.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: In instances where the police are called because someone is holding a "gun" and the police show up and shoot someone with a toy gun....

It does not seem like much responsibility is laid on the overly cautious caller or police. See the cases in Beavercreek Oh, Cleveland Oh and AZ.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Reading the comments in here... I am so stunned at how chill a lot of Americans seem to be about guns. Lots of "if it's in a holster go about your business there is nothing to be afraid of". I just... find it difficult to comprehend living in a world where you see a person with a gun and just go about your day!

edit: Wow some people are so defensive! I wasn't criticising, I'm just saying it's strange for two countries that share such similarities to have such a stark difference. (I'm in the UK)
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Just to clarify - it's perfectly acceptable, legal and encouraged if an actual fire breaks out in a movie theater to yell, "Fire!" When people use this example they so often omit the important part, being, it's illegal to yell, "Fire!" when there is no fire. And, that makes this whole ELIM apples to oranges and a really awful attempt at comparison.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Don't you see cops and other security personnel open carrying all the time? How do you know they aren't active shooters who are just dressed that way to ensure maximum damage? Why aren't you in a constant state of panic?
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: If you see a person, who has a visible gun, that is *in a holster*, the likelihood is 99.999999% that person is not about to go on a shooting spree. 

If seeing a gun in a holster makes you afraid that a mass shooting is about to happen, buy a lotto ticket on the way out the door, then lay on the ground to reduce your chances of being killed by lightning, and prepare to punch a shark in the nose to stop it from attacking you.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Normally a lawful open carry will have their weapon holstered/shouldered as opposed to the [low and ready](_URL_3_). I'm not sure what sort of legal obligation there is to this, but aiming a weapon at someone or in their general direction is a crime, [brandishing](_URL_3_). 

Side note: if you see someone carrying a weapon and in an active shooter situation: [run, hide, fight](_URL_3_). Do not yell he has a gun, you will only draw attention to yourself and cause panic.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: None of the answers to this completely legitimate question have really  given a way to differentiate between the two. I'm glad I don't live in the US, cause I'd be noping the fuck out of anywhere if someone who wasn't a cop walked in with a gun strapped to them. I'm not going to risk my kids' lives on the assumption that these are just assholes who think they look cool with their guns visible.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: i'm not a fan of open carry, i'm def. pro concealed. there should be no reason to SHOW your carrying a weapon, that makes you target # 1.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: A good starting point: roughly 99% of people who own guns do not intend to harm you with them.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I don't have an answer, but had this very experience the other day, shortly after the Paris shootings. 

Sitting outside a coffee shop in a strip mall, a large, angry looking guy gets out of his truck and walks purposefully over to the coffee shop with a handgun visible on his hip (holstered). He was wearing a t-shirt, jeans, and sunglasses. I was alarmed at the sight and wondered, how do I know if this guy is going in there to shoot up the place? Wait until I hear shots? Sure, he didn't have the gun in hand ... but he also wasn't inside yet.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Carried in non threatening manner is also in most laws. This goes for rifles as well as handguns. A holstered handgun or slinged ride is considered non threatening.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: It's called brandishing.  If they have pulled the weapon from it's holster or are pointing a rifle then they are performing an illegal action.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I know a few conceal carry permit holders who carry because their work either involves high risk (cousin drives an armored van for Brinks), or they work in high risk areas (dad works as a wholesaler for a hardware distributor, some of his accounts are in some seriously tough neighborhoods), my friend is also in the junk car business and keeps large amounts of cash on hand because most his customers and competitors deal in cash and he needs to to stay competitive.  I know where I live in NY its very difficult to get a concealed carry permit.  Personal defense is NOT a valid reason to be able to obtain one.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I can understand in a society where everyone is armed you would need to be armed for the event you are attacked. Having it openly displayed though is provocative and as the OP said could easily be mistaken for someone who is about to use the weapon.

Personally I live in a gunless society and am glad I don't have to live in paranoia and fear that come with an armed populace. It also means the police are less paranoid and the average 'beat' policeman doesn't need to be armed any more.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: They won't. This is just one of the many practical flaws in both open carry and concealed carry in the event of an active shooter situation. When guns start being drawn there will be chaos and innocent people being shot. This doesn't fit very well with the gun nut's hero fantasies though.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: On October 31st, this exact thing happened. Noah Harpham was spotted by a neighbor walking down the street with a gun. Police were called, but not dispatched since open carry is illegal. Not long after, he shot and killed three random people.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: People who live in states that open carry is legal are probably used to seeing people open carry and not freak out every time they see a gun
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet? You need to rethink that one.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Well I personally think open carry is stupid. Don't get me wrong, I support the right to do what you want to do and if that's what you feel comfortable with doing then go for it. I just think, practically speaking, it's a bad idea. 

First off I don't want people knowing I have a gun. It's there for my protection. Not to show people some level of "don't fuck with me" or that you have a gun. I also don't want any harassment or being made out as a criminal by others, especially law enforcement, by openly carrying. I mean think about it from a leo's stand point when dealing with the variety of reasons an leo might have an interaction with you. Even just passing on the street. Lets say you get into a fender bender and the guy behind you smashes up your car because he wasn't paying attention. You get out of the car and start assessing damage and trading info. I police officer drives by and stops as they do. He is trained to assess potential threats in every situation. He sees two guys on the side of the road. If he sees someone openly carrying he is likely to approach the situation guarded and even with his gun drawn. So instead of dealing with the situation at hand the first reaction is hostile. It just doesn't set you up for success.

Also, what if for some reason you match the description of someone they are looking for. For any amount of reasons. This has happened time and time again where people who fit the description of a wanted criminal are stopped and questions by police. If you are minding your own business walking down the street openly carrying and an leo notices you are openly carrying you will be treated as if you are the criminal until they can determine otherwise. The officer would likely draw his weapon, have you lay down, cuff you, and disarm you until the situation is resolved. If you are concealed carrying the officer would approach you calmly. You can inform them of your concealed carry, he will disarm you, and the interaction can continue peacefully.

My biggest thing is that it is a big marker saying "I have a gun" and in many many situations you just don't want people knowing this. The climate surrounding interactions with you are different and for no real added benefit.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: How do you know if someone is a heavily armed police officer doing his job, walking his beat, and not a spree shooter dressed as a police officer?
Or even a cop who's gone over the edge and about to go on a rampage himself.


When you ask 'how are people expected to know', you are dealing with perception of security vs actual danger, and I think the answer is: they aren't.

How are you expected to know that the car stopped at the light isn't planning on crushing you as you walk in the crosswalk in front of it?

You never know.

How are you expected to know that the cashier at the store isn't giving high-quality counterfeit bills?

You probably don't know.

How are you expected to know that your pharmacist hasn't dipped all your pills with a cyanide broth?

You can't really know.

How can you be expected to know if the hotel maid dipped your toothbrush in the toilet?

You'll probably never know.

How are you expected to know that your own government isn't covering up the fact that there are toxins in the drinking water?

You aren't, really.

The world has the potential to be dangerous and insecure, but generally we are getting safer and safer, at least here in the usa, things are getting safer year after year, and life expectancy continues to increase.

But there are never real guarantees. And if you come across anyone who guarantees your safety, your critical mind should ask, "how do I know that this guarantee will keep me from harm?"
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: This thread is proof that guns **need** to be restricted to the actual, original intent of the 2nd Amendment in the USA (only allowable to keep stored for a "well regulated militia").

I'm tired of the misinterpretation of the 2nd Amendment by everyone including our own goddamn government just because they have this perverse, violent need to own a damn gun to use for whatever reason they think.  Our country would be so much safer if it wasn't for this diseased way of thinking.

"But only criminals will have guns!"  Yes, well, do you want to make everything legal then, because this dumb idea could be applied to anything that's illegal.  Legality and the law isn't an all or nothing thing.  We reduce the amount of guns to a bare minimum, remove access to them, regulate them, and so on, and guess what?  Any event suddenly becomes more rare because not every single person is walking around with a gun or has access to same.  Only "well-regulated militias", meaning organizations that are actually responsible.

The USA needs to grow up and realize their little shooty toys is making this country insanely dangerous to live in.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I don't think guns are very useful in a robbery situation.  I've been robbed twice.  One time, a guy put a gun to my head and demanded all my weed.  Even if I had a gun, it would have done nothing.  I would not have had time to get a gun out at all.  Also, I had my best friend(female) there with me and I couldn't risk anything happening to her.  I had to just hand over my weed.  At least I kept the $75 in my pocket:)  The other time I was robbed was at work where I couldn't have a gun anyway.  I suspect people think having a gun gives you all this power but it really doesn't. The only ones with the power are the ones willing to do violence.  All you can do is do as they say and hope for the best.  They're not gonna let you pull a gun out.  I've served in the Army and definitely love guns, I just don't think they're as much of a help as people think they are.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Not exactly answering your question but more so just explaining a bit more about the new open carry law and how it affects gun owners. 

As someone has already said, most people who carry a pistol do so concealed. The catch with the CHL is (at least in Texas) if it accidentally becomes unconcealed then there could be legal consequences. Why so many supported the open carry ruling is that it protects chl carriers if it becomes exposed in public. 

Honestly as far as knowing if an open carrier is a threat or not, there's honestly no way to know. In my logic, I doubt any one who intends to use it would have it holstered on their belt for the world to see because then every one would already know there's a gun in the room. That's why in chl training they talk about the importance of your handgun not being visible to possible assailants because they would react differently if there was a gun in play.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: A good rule of thumb is that if you see a person with a gun in hand, get to cover.  Whether they are a "good guy" (i.e. responding to a bad guy) or a "bad guy" is a moot point.  Bullets are likely about to start flying and you don't want to be around for it. 


My question... And I rarely hear of this happening, surprisingly... Is how do CCW holders identify if someone is a threat or not?  Isn't it plausible that you see a guy holding a gun as if he is looking for a target in a crowded place... So you draw your weapon.  You see him raise his gun as if he is about to fire, so you shoot him. 

Then it turns out that he was about to shoot a guy he spotted about to stab a child with a large knife.   So not only do you shoot a good guy, but the bad guy still stabs the child.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: If I'm driving my car on the highway, how do I know that the guy driving alongside me isn't drunk and about to veer into my lane? If I call the police on him and there's a collision while the police are responding, who is liable, the person who is driving alongside me or me, who originally placed the call?

That hypo is the same as what you posed. The driver/open-carrier is doing nothing wrong, and you want to know if he can be found criminally liable for his lawful conduct.  It doesn't work like that. In the U.S., someone is only criminally liable for doing something that is illegal. Your question essentially asks if it is okay to hold someone criminally liable because a third person acts irrationally. The answer is no. The third person might be liable for inducing panic or disorderly conduct.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I live in a southern state in an area where open carry is pretty common. 

If you take the time to focus on the person rather than the gun it becomes pretty obvious what their intentions are. As in, they are doing what they would normally be doing except they have a gun on their hip. So when I see a guy pushing a shopping cart of groceries at Walmart with a gun on his hip I have 0% feeling that he is going to cause trouble. Same thing for the guy in the parking lot tinkering with his pickup truck engine with a gun on his hip. 

I don't particularly care for open carry in suburban or urban environments, I think it draws too much unnecessary attention and causes distress to folks unaccustomed to it.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Mt father is a handgun licence instructor and I do marketing for him.

The biggest thing that you will notice about a lawful open-carrier is their discreet nature. My father carries his weapon on his belt at a particular angle in a tension lock holster.

When you're carrying a weapon, you have to have a licence. I licence means you have never comitted a felony, and one slip up with your gun could cost you your weapon forever. As a result, serious open-carriers often dress nice, wear a jacket over their weapon, or try to look like upstanding members of society rather than gun toting hoodlums.

An active shooter has a different psyche that often excludes others from the equation, unlike a lawful carrier who has their weapon on lockdown under strict circumstances.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Most of the comments are about how most concealed carriers and open carriers are law abiding citizens who carry to protect themselves and the average person should not feel scared or worried around people carrying.  That is perfectly understandable, but how do trust that the person carrying is responsible.  People are by nature fallible.  We make mistakes all of the time and misread situations constantly.  There is no reasonable way to know that the man behind me in the movie theater won't accidentally shoot someone or miss read a situation and shoot an innocent person. That's why I would not trust myself to carry a gun in public and I do not unconditionally trust the people around me, even if they appear to be law abiding.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Seeing some random person with a tool designed only for killing in plain view, for no apparent reason while walking around the grocery store or something would make me uncomfortable, plain and simple.

I've met plenty of reasonable, well-adjusted people I would trust to carry a weapon like that, and I've also met many that I wouldn't at all. These people aren't mass murderers, just assholes. We've all met them, and I'm sure many of these assholes have friends and family who love them, but some people are just unreasonable shitheads for a variety of different reasons. They should not be allowed to carry a gun on a daily basis.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Not really. Cops will tell you it's best to keep your gun concealed but other than that nothing happens. Honestly freaking out about someone doing something perfectly legal just makes you look like an idiot. If I wanted to walk into a diner with a Mosin over my shoulder I could, but the owner of said Diner also has every right to tell me to get the fuck out or he's calling the cops. But in public I can have it shouldered as I wish. Brandishing a firearm however is never legal in public and is typically only permitted in appropriate circumstances.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: The reason I'm against open/concealed carry isn't that 'guns cause violence' etc. 

I don't believe humans are smart or responsible enough in general to have that kind of power.

All it takes is a few people in a busy mall or street carrying, and some jerk like me to shout 'He's got a gun'. Two carrying-folk draw their weapon to defend themselves, mistake each other as the gun man, fire off a round, which prompts other carrying-folk to draw and fire, panic ensues and a bunch of people get injured or worse.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Question from TX:
Allowing open carry was recently passed in my state. I play poker socially at a local restaurant here in Austin. There was a guy that joined our group that had his pistol holstered, rocking his NRA hat, and with an "all-access" companion dog. (not sure of relevance, just adding for color).

This guy was drinking alcohol while playing. I was always taught alcohol and guns never mix, but am not sure of the law regarding drinking while open carrying. 

I'd love to be educated on the law.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: You're not.

That's why only the absolute stupidest of carriers will have their guns out.

Open carry really only has one tangible benefit, and that's letting ranchers and other outdoor types who occasionally have need to stray from within our fences not to have to stop and drop our belts just to chase down an escaped goat or cross a couple of gates. In those cases the cops of the area usually already know us anyway.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: There's a brilliant software developer that the company that I work for has been trying to get up to Canada to speak.

Unfortunately, he doesn't feel safe without his gun and our gun laws won't permit him to carry.   Apparently he doesn't go anywhere that guns are not allowed.

Fair enough but to someone like me and many of my coworkers who aren't into guns, the mindset seems strange and totally outside of our reality.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Here's my concern (genuine, not trolling):

When cops are involved in shootouts, their accuracy is abysmally low, because "holy shit, it's a life and death situation" that goes above and beyond anything that they were trained for. In a "good guy with a gun" scenario, where a civilian (on average) has less training than a cop, it's likely that the GGWAG will harm themselves or other innocents.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I went out for bbq a few weeks ago and a guy in front of me had a gun on his hip.  He looked 18-19 and was leaning against the counter while his dad ordered  dinner for him and his girlfriend.  I assumed he wasn't a shooter because he brought his dad and a date. That was all I really had to go on though.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: If we were to consider the millions of people already legally carrying concealed for many years, we'd be amazed:
_URL_4_
My wife and I have been out all day with friends that conceal carry and we never notice... they don't mention it.. or show it. I won't realize until we get back to their house and they take off holster and lock it up.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: How do you tell the difference between someone with no weapon and someone going on a shooting spree with weapon concealed?

You don't know. People need to wake the fuck up and realize we don't live in a utopia. There's bad people doing bad things everywhere, and you may never see it coming. 

If I wasn't a felon I would carry.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: Canadian. I think the "I'm going to carry this AR15 with me into wal-mart because that somehow makes me a patriot" mindset is the hardest thing about America to wrap my head around. What the hell are you proving? Aside from you not actually understanding the point of the second amendment?
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: How do you know someone carries "responsibly".  Do you just guess?  Everyone around the world gets mugged.  It happens. I don't think guns save that from happening. People on here are saying you would know the difference to a responsible gun owner and not one.  Come on.  Lipstick on a pig
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I took my daughter to the skatepark the other day and saw someone open-carrying for the first time. It seems inappropriate in any circumstance I can imagine, but more so at a public park with 40-50 kids. His kid was a shit skateboarder though, so that made it better.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: This is great. I just got an email saying I have to attend active shooter training because I'm a student employee at my uni. I think it's ridiculous and there are other ways we can handle this that don't mean teaching people how not to die.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: This is exactly why I would much rather have concealed carry laws. I understand the whole self defence thing but to me it seems the only real reason to open carry is because you love guns and you must show everyone else you love guns too.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: That's all the fun of an armed society citizen, stupid shit can happen at any moment and based on our current system liability may or may not fall on the living, but will NOT fall on the police.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: I'm a huge advocate for responsible gun ownership, and my whole family carries.

There is nothing that open carry accomplishes that concealed carry can't... Most guys that open carry do it as a penis measuring exercise.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: This is [illustrated](_URL_5_) guide, details how you tell the difference between an honest patriot and a deranged killer. It's not my work and it has been doing the rounds for a while.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: How do you tell the difference between a guy concealing a gun legally or with then intent of shooting someone? 

Same thing. You don't.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: You can't. Hence the smarter choice being to not allow people to carry weapons in public. Less risk and less ambiguity.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: > someone who had a natural, panicky reaction to seeing a firearm in plain view

There's your problem right there...
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: its probably safer to just shoot everyone you see, when you go out. None of them can be trusted........really.
question: How are people expected to know the difference between a lawful open carrier and an active shooter who hasn't started shooting yet?[removed] answer: any black or african-american open-carry folks on this thread? would like to hear your perspective.
question: how does tuning an instrument (like guitar) down help musicians hit higher notes singing? answer: If I understand the situation you're talking about, it sounds like you mean when a band tunes their instruments down so the entire song is played in a lower key than originally. If that's the case, the singer can hit higher notes because now, that note is brought down however far and is easier to hit.
question: how does tuning an instrument (like guitar) down help musicians hit higher notes singing? answer: It makes those high notes lower, relatively speaking. 

Think about it like this: if you have trouble dunking, lowering the height of the basket makes it more likely that you'll be able to dunk, right? The original height might be out of reach for your jumping skills, but the new height might put it within your reach.

Same with tuning down. That note is the basket, and the height of the net is the key of the song you're playing. If you lower the key enough (i.e. tune down), you're going to get to a point where that high note is within your vocal range.
question: how does tuning an instrument (like guitar) down help musicians hit higher notes singing? answer: It doesn't. The singer still has an achievable range of notes in their voice. Tuning an instrument down doesn't allow them to go above the range, but what it does is tune down the entire key of the song down by a relative amount. That means that if a singers' top note in their range is a high D for example, and the top note in the song (with normal tuning) is a high E, tuning the instrument down a step allows the singer to sing the song a note further down the scale which would then make the high note in the song a high D, and therefore achievable by the singer.
question: how does tuning an instrument (like guitar) down help musicians hit higher notes singing? answer: If the pitch of the song is too high for the singers voice to comfortably sing, lowering the octave can allow the singer to hit the notes.
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: The MKUltra project wasn't about some kind of mysterious "mind control" ability.  It was a research project to investigate a wide variety of drugs and forms of torture that could be used to further the CIA's agendas.  The reason it's often called the "CIA mind control project" is because part of the project was investigating drugs such as LSD that they hoped would make victims vulnerable to suggesting and manipulation.

Experiments of the project mostly include administering various drugs to people and then conducting behavioral tests, sometimes without the victims' knowledge or consent.  LSD was their primary focus, but they also tested a number of other drugs ([from the Wikipedia article](_URL_0_)):

 > Other experiments involved heroin, morphine, temazepam (used under code name MKSEARCH), mescaline, psilocybin, scopolamine, cannabis, alcohol, and sodium pentothal
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: Think less 'mind control' and more 'using drugs to torture people'. For instance, say you recruit a bunch of college students to do a scientific test, and have them sign non-disclosure agreements. This is a relatively rich market, as there are always college students willing to spend a few hours being poked in exchange for a token sum that can be spent on food or alcohol. Tell them whatever you want; it's enshrined in American law and scientific ethics that it's 100% ok to lie to test subjects about what you actually plan on doing to them, so long as they know they're being tested in a broad sense. Give them each their own room, pump half of them full of saline solution, the other half full of LSD, and blast them with light and sound and see if the LSD-dosed students beg for mercy before the saline crew. Afterwards, write down your results, hand each kid $20 and remind them that if they break their non-disclosure agreement you will send them to federal pound-you-in-the-ass penitentiary. 

As for how they found out, the MK-series experiments left a pretty broad paper trail, and as time went on more and more of it made it out into the open air. At first it was mostly rumor and hearsay, hence how ULTRA got it's killer rep as a "mind control" program. But as the years ground on, stuff got declassified or released via the Freedom of Information Act, and the actual paperwork started entering public knowledge.
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: I would very much recommend listening to The Last Podcast on the Left, episode 52 on mkultra. They also have more episodes on weird government programs, cover ups, and conspiracies.
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: The series "Manhunt" on Netflix about the Unabomber has an absolutely amazing depiction of Ted K's version of what he went through in MKUltra at Harvard. Some people are convinced that his experiences in MKUltra led him to what he became. The scenes are so sad I definitely felt bad for him. 

In the series, a very young and lonely Ted turns to a larger-than-life professor at Harvard for support. The professor spends a year encouraging Ted's anti-technology ideas and builds-up his ego and trust. Ted absolutely worships the professor and participates in his experiments to please him. During the second year, the professor does a complete 180 and belittles Ted, destroying his ego and ideas. It is revealed that the professor never cared about Ted and only used him for his twisted experiments, and Ted is broken forever. I'm sure it's dramatized to some extent, but I believe much of the content of the show is taken from first-hand accounts and interviews.
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: To piggy back off of other people's comments, apparently only 20,000 pages of the original document was found because the rest were destroyed. That's noteworthy, especially considering people claiming to be MKUltra victims went into extensive detail about how the program also entailed sexual abuse, the attempt to produce people that could wage psychological warfare through psychic means, and the act of inducing dissociation to create personalities that would do their bidding, kind of like pawns or figureheads. 

It sounds crazy, but governments, which are comprised of people in positions of power, do crazy things in order to keep a grip on the power they already have or to obtain even more. I can't imagine that anyone wanting that much authority is sane, so it really doesn't seem like a far stretch that they actually tried all of those known things and worse.
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: Wasnt the unibomber subjected to these experiments? IIRC they basically broke him down and assaulted his views and it had long lasting effects.
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: It's is proven the documents are declassified they laced the bread in France with lsd as well as other ways and conducted experiments on people when they were high
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: "drugs are bad." "How?" "They can make you say and do things you'd never normally even consider." "I bet we can use that to get people to do we want." "Let's try" fast forward twenty years "ya that really didn't work. For some reason when we secretly give people large amounts of unstable mind altering drugs, that induce frightening hallucinations, without their knowledge or when they're our prisoner it's hard to predict or control what they'll do and even made some people very pissed off with us." "Huh, who knew?"
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: posted this as a reply elsewhere, but here's my contribution.

MKULTRA is **proven** and was exposed during the 70s. It was discovered because someone forgot to incinerate a storage room full of boxes uncovered during an FOIA request. The papers in that storage room (along with rumors) are the **only** sources we really have on MKULTRA.

The origins of MKULTRA are largely based on continuation of work of Nazi scientists that came over here during Operation Paperclip. US Navy reports from 1945 included observations of Nazis using mescaline during interrogations at Dachau.

In 1947, the Navy started their own testing of mescaline, scopolamine and others during Project CHAPTER (1947) which then evolved into Project CHATTER (1951-1953). This is what then eventually combined with some other projects to form MKULTRA after numerous other names and projects (ARTICHOKE, CASTIGATE, MKNAOMI, MKDELTA, etc.)

The roots of the program were in drugs and interrogation -- but over the 20+ years that the program was in existence, it expanded well beyond that. Research into hypnotism (MKULTRA subproject 49, 84, others), brain concussions to erase memories (subproject 54), sensory deprivation (subproject 61), electric shock therapy (subproject 62), psychic driving by Ewen Cameron (subproject 68), neurotoxins and biological warfare (subproject 99, 101), study of adolescent gangs and social dynamics (subproject 102), children's summer camps (subproject 103), sabotage of petroleum resources (104), the infamous Witch Doctor Study by Dr. Raymond Prince at McGill Universtiy (subproject 121) the list goes on and on and on with more and more interesting subprojects.

There are all documented, I haven't brought up any that can't be backed up by redacted documents on _URL_1_ own website.

TL;DR MKULTRA started off as research into drugs and torture as interrogation techniques, but it expanded into all things "mind-control" related. Implanting false memories, erasing memories, hypnotism, cultural dynamics, peer pressure -- if it had to do with influencing human behavior in isolation or groups, MKULTRA touched it.
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: How it was discovered: in the 1970s there was a lot of Congressional interest in CIA misdeeds from the 1950s and 1960s. These included investigations into assassination attempts, the CIA's role in destabilizing democratic regimes, and its experiments on civilian populations. The Church Committee in particular held extensive hearings on all these things.

What is most interesting here is that without CIA cooperation they probably would have been limited in what they could have unearthed. The head of the CIA, William Colby, decided for various reasons known probably only to him (he seemed perhaps a bit tortured by his participation in the Phoenix Program), to give them a ton of information. 

There is a great documentary on Colby, _[The Man Nobody Knew](_URL_2_)_ (2011), that goes into this part of things.
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: The wild thing is that  LSD testing wasn't esoteric to the CIA alone. At the time, many countries around the world where conducting similar tests but mostly as a means of incapacitating foreign armies for a short period. The theory was that by poisoning a supply of water they could incapacitate whole units without firing a shot. 

This video isn't from MK Ultra but was a test conducted by the british army 
_URL_3_
question: MKUltra[removed] answer: This is a subject I've been super fascinated with and have done a lot of research on. If you want to be thoroughly creeped out, check out the book The Search for the Manchurian Candidate. The author, John Marks, went through a bunch of declassified CIA files and interviewed people involved in the MKUltra project. It's a fantastic read about the history and events of the project.

One aspect of the project I'm most intrigued by is they recruited a federal drug agent, George White, to set up a safe house and run experiments on people. So by day he's keeping drugs off the streets, and by night, he's testing them on unwitting criminals.

As also mentioned, Wormwood is an excellent documentary on netflix about someone else involved in the project who became a victim.

Not to spam, but I'm also writing a comic series called North Bend, inspired by the events of MKUltra. It's about a Seattle DEA agent who is recruited by the CIA to test an experimental mind control drug on unwitting people. Our kickstarter for issue #2 just wrapped up. Here's a link though if anyone might be interested, if you're into stuff like Mindhunter, The Americans, or Wormwood.

[_URL_4_](_URL_4_)
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: Just going to Copy-Paste from another thread I replied to:

Ok, I do netsec  &  net eng so without going into super specifics let's give this a whirl:

 > but is it now also possible Google to sell my browsing data

It always was, and they do. Google makes it's money by creating user profiles, and selling them to ad agencies, or running ads themselves. That is where their money comes from.

The thing is google doesn't have all your browsing data. Google has your search history, any tracking done through their ad services, your email, your location if you use google maps, and basically anything you do on chrome or stock android, especially if you are signed in.

Now google themselves uses this information to provide a very good service. Ever wonder why google searches tend to be the best? Well not only are they the biggest, but because of their user profile, they know what you want.

Take a member of /r/the_donald and /r/politics. Have those two users both search the word "impeach" and they will get two different suggestion lists. While both will likely have "Impeach Obama" and "Impeach Trump" they will likely be in different order.

This is because google is predicting what you want based on previous search history  &  email keywords (yes google scans your email).

Now google provides **excellent** service, but there is a price to pay for it. On the internet if you are not paying for something you can assume you are the product being sold.

Unless of course google is your ISP. Then they get everything, because they can see everything.

_______________________________________________________________

Onto what *YOU* can do about it. Get yourself a VPN (Virtual private Network).

There are many providers, I myself use NORDVPN, but they aren't the most popular due to some customer service issues, and they aren't the most secure if you aren't running on openVPN. The upside is they are relatively cheap, very simple to use, and have a lot of nodes all over the world.

But if you are just looking to anonymize your traffic, circumvent region locks, and maybe hide some torrenting I think they're great.

On to the technical side, who is a VPN and what does it do?

A VPN basically creates an encrypted traffic tunnel  &  routes all your internet traffic through that.

So instead of seeing:

* workacct1484 connects to _URL_1_ 
* workacct1484 pulls down images from /r/unxpectedjihad
* workacct 1484 receives torrent traffic from  < nodes > 

my ISP instead sees:

* workacct1484 blarglblarglc'thulhuharblehoggglyfthagn to  < Server > 
* workacct1484 blarglblarglr'lyehharblehoggglywtagn to  < Server > 
* workacct1484 blarglblarglph'ngluiharblehoggglymglw'nafh to  < Server > 

So my ISP has no idea what I am doing on that connection, only that all my traffic is going to that server. So while they *could* sell my browsing data, it would be useless.

[Diagram](_URL_0_)

Now you might say to yourself, "Self, what if the MPAA suspects workacct1484 of torrenting. Can't they sue  &  subpoena the VPN provider for their logs?"

Yes, they can. Which is why you need a VPN provider that does not keep logs. Many of them don't and what happens is this:

* MPAA sues  &  demands VPN logs
* VPN provider says Ok, but we don't have them. We do not keep logs. We cannot give you something we don't have.
* MPAA curses

Now if you start torrenting too much (like actually releasing the new content as node 0), or start doing more shady things like drug deals, and the FBI needs to get involved, you may be in trouble. Because a VPN can be compromised. It's not a 100% guarantee. But security isn't about being unbreachable, it's about being more secure than the attacker cares to break.

How do we get around this? TOR:

_____________________________________________________________

TOR the onion browser, a necessary tool in the fight for privacy.

What does TOR do? Well TOR encrypts your traffic. At every. single. network hop.

What do I mean? Well you don't connect to _URL_1_. do a traceroute to even _URL_2_  &  you will see many hops. Each hop TOR re-ecnrypts your traffic.

[Diagram](_URL_3_)

This does create a slow connection but a much more secure connection. It is not 100% secure though. If someone controls both the first  &  last node you use, they can do reasonably well finding out your traffic with some other information. I won't get into the specifics, but suffice to say it is **NOT** easy, but it *CAN* be done.

_______________________________________________________________

So if you really want to ensure privacy what do you do? Well first off, stop using chrome. Use an opensource browser like opera or firefox.

Second get a VPN.

Third use TOR over that VPN.

Fourth, start calling your representatives  &  telling them how you feel, then GET OUT  &  VOTE. Representatives can see who is registered to vote, if you call or email and bitch, but aren't registered to vote, they do not give a single fuck about your opinion.

Finally, realize you lack the money  &  expertise to stop a truly dedicated attacker with any sufficient backing.

______________________________________________________________

And finally what does this mean for you?

For the average person. Nothing. You will not really see an impact from ISPs selling your browsing data to advertisers. Because it's already happening. And it's not just ISPs. It's google, microsoft, apple, amazon, onstar, basically everyone does it. Especially facebook. 

#GET THE FUCK OFF FACEBOOK IF YOU CARE AT ALL ABOUT YOUR PRIVACY.

They are literally public enemy #1 when it comes to privacy.

But why should you care?

Because these people are often very careless. Not because they choose to be, but because they honestly don't give two flying fucks about your data. And if they get compromised other people may be able to view your data. Maybe your company buys your data  &  sees you looking for a new job  &  fires you. Maybe your neighbor buys your history  &  sees that you frequent /r/clopclop (NSFW) and uses that to blackmail or embarrass you because you called them out at a school PTA meeting. Maybe an identity thief sees you going to  < Local Credit Union > .com and now can focus their attack.

If you don't think your internet history matters, then post it here. All of it. Oh and everything you cleared. And everything done in "private" browsing modes.

And because, personally, I just don't think it's right. You should be allowed privacy. You shouldn't be tracked, and monitored, and sold like cattle. You are a person, not a commodity. And because very often people do not have choice in ISPs, you need to actually fight for your rights because the market is not "free" and there are no realistic competitive options.


If you have any questions feel free to ask.
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: ISP's monitor and track your browsing habits and surfing. Now they are legally allowed to sell of your data to third parties without telling you. Yes, vpn will definitely keep your browsing private.
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: I don't have an answer but I am dying to know too. Who can buy my search history? Employer, health insurance provider, any random person?
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: SSL (HTTPS) is extremely important now. Checkout the Chrome extension HTTPS everywhere. 

And no, a VPN will not protect you, but it [kinda does] (_URL_4_). Just know that all this is still new and we're all trying to grasp this.
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: It will have no new effects on you. Your ISP has been allowed to pass on your browsing history since the creation of the internet. As for how this has affected you overall the other answers here should have that covered.
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: Some helpful software.

Firefox: DuckDuckGo (!g); and Onion browser

Addons: Ublock Origin, NoScript, Disconnect, and self destructing cookies

Please obtain a VPN! We need to starve the corporations lobbying against our privacy.

Bleachbit

Remove yourself from social media like Twitter and Facebook.

My referral for ExpressVPN which is a worthwhile investment: [link](_URL_5_)
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: It could mean invasion of internet privacy, more information for third party affiliates (ADs, blackmail) that come from you.

Plus National Agencies that bulk search your information, all this is controversial and not publicly admitted nor should be taken to heart in truth but the very fact that ISP does this opens a lot of doors.

Australia has some of the worst internet in the world, they also have a law in which meta data (websites you visit) can be kept up for 2 years by your ISP.  This is usually so the our agencies can get some private information to link you dangerous things or advertisement data selling.

As other have said, having a VPN protects you in a small way against a small threat, it will encrypt your traffic and make it harder for the ISPs to figure exactly what traffic, what website you are on. But some ISPs do have tools that narrow it down to exactly kind of data, not what data but what kind if you are using text, video, torrenting. Nethertheless, unless you have leaks, they shouldn't find out anything about what you are doing.

Commerical VPNs are not the trustworthy in the sense of absolute security as they could be monitored, bought but they do protect you from ISPs as they usually don't have the power nor interest to chase your data.

Either ways, a VPN is not absolutely secure but it should provide doubt and shouldn't link you to any data that the ISP can use. If they tell you to stop using a VPN or link you to something. That's a basic invasion of privacy and would recommend switching. What ISP is directly selling browser history anyways?
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: The truth is, not much. There has (surprise!) been a lot of misinformation about what's going on. 

The bill that supposedly made it legal for ISPs to sell your browsing history actually merely rejected a rule promulgated by the FTC last year. That's the way administrative rules work. The FTC is not elected, so congress must review and can reject the rules. 

So now things go back to how they were before the rule, which you probably didn't notice anyway.
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: I've read that this will remove the opt-in requirement, but will consumers still be able to opt-out?
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: What it means, in practical reality, is that the relationship between you and your ISP or mobile provider has drastically changed.

Until now, the ISP or mobile provider (the Company) was a business that offered a service - connection to the internet - as its product for to a customer - you - for a fee - money you pay. The relationship, although may be strained at times, worked, because the Company's motivation was to provide the customer a good service at a fair price. You pay, you receive service, everyone's happy. If you don't like the service, you switch to a different provider (Like, cancel Verizon and go to AT & T).

Now, it's completely different. The ISP or mobile provider is still the Company, but you are no longer the customer. The product the Company now provides is data - your browsing history, email activity, text activity, common keywords typed in emails and texts, location data, anything stored in the cloud, etc. The buyer of your data is the customer. You are now the farm, and are not the primary focus of the company's efforts to please. They will now work to please their customers, the buyers of your info, and farm you to keep their customers happy and their revenue flowing.

In this case, however, unlike facebook and google, the Company charges you, the resource, to feed it data, the product, to sell to their customers.

Imagine a strawberry having to pay you to eat it. It's like that. Except, you are the strawberry.
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: If you use Google or Facebook it really doesn't mean much. 

While an ISP does have a more complete view of the sites you visit, they still can't see the content you are accessing via HTTPS. They can however view HTTP traffic. Also your ISP knows where you live and likely has access to credit rating information from billing. 

A good analogy is think of your ISP like a water company but you have both clear and opaque pipes. Clear pipes are HTTP, opaque pipes are HTTPS. The data you transfer is the liquid in the pipes. Because the ISP controls the pipes as they leave your property, they know where and how the pipes route.  Because network packets indicate where they need to go, the ISP can tell when and where the data is flowing. Now when you communicate over the HTTP (the clear pipes) anyone who can see the pipes can also see the data as it passes. The ISP can see a lot if this data if they choose. When using HTTPS (the opaque) no one can see the data except the sender and recipient. 

Back to Google or Facebook. Both companies and their affiliates leave tracking cookies and utilize tracking software to capture you browsing and viewing habits. They can actually capture way more detail, as they can also access the HTTPS content and URL, which the ISP cannot do. However it does rely upon a large network of affiliate sites (which there is no shortage) to get a breadth of information collected. 

Back to pipes... imagine that the pipes flow in both directions. Some website dyes the data going back that stains your browser uniquely so that any that any time you transfer data again they or some friends they've informed about the stain, can identify you. 

VPNS only solve the ISP snooping in a limited manner - it doesn't solve the Google or Facebook (or other media tracking company that uses embedded cookies). 

Pipes again... so the VPN is like inserting a smaller opaque pipe through one of the ISP's pipes - clear or opaque. Now the only destination that can view your content and final destination is the VPN provider. The ISP can only tell you are routing data to the VPN provider, they can't tell what the data is, nor it's final destination.  

What does this all mean? It means your ISP can profit from the extra data they can collect about your internet usage. They can only collect and sell what they know. While yes, this is a huge amount of data - it still pales in comparison to what is already available via social media tracking which is more detailed and refined.  At most this means media tracking companies buy enough data to complete their picture and tie you to a real and physical identity - which they can likely do within a 90% certainty anyways without. 

What I hope it means... cheaper ISP fees. Privacy on the Internet was gone a long time ago.
question: What does this ISP selling browser history mean for me?[removed] answer: Wasn't this already legal?  What the republicans did was *stop* a *new set* of privacy laws that don't currently exist from coming into effect.  ISPs could already do this the whole time, but apparently they chose not to do so, presumably because it's shitty business.  I agree that it sucks that these privacy laws weren't enacted, but why is everybody freaking out?
question: How does the slant of the blade on a guillotine lead to a cleaner cut?Does it have something to do with pressure, or am I way off here? answer: I'm no 17th century executioner, but I believe it has something to do with more force being transfered to a smaller surface area.
question: How does the slant of the blade on a guillotine lead to a cleaner cut?Does it have something to do with pressure, or am I way off here? answer: Think of how you'd use a knife to cut something tough in the kitchen, like say, a potato.  Now, you could swing the knife forcefully to chop it in half, but  unless you're very good, you're not going to cut exactly where you wanted to, you'll also risk chopping off your fingers or damaging your knife, which would be bad.  The proper way to slice is to place the blade on the item in question, and apply regular downward pressure while pulling/pushing the blade towards/away from you.  This lets the blade act like a blade rather than just a wedge.  The principle is the same with the guillotine.  The lower part of the blade makes contact with the chap's neck first, and because the blade is slanted, it slides *relatively* along his neck.   The point of contact between the blade and the neck moves in 2 dimensions, rather than just one, even though the blade is only moving in one dimension.
question: How does the slant of the blade on a guillotine lead to a cleaner cut?Does it have something to do with pressure, or am I way off here? answer: It's the same trick as ripping a phone book in half.  You can't actually tear the whole thing in half when the pages are stacked neatly, but you can tear it half when you make a slant out of the pages and tear less pages at once.

A flat blade would either bounce, or get stuck partway.  I'm fairly sure this is also why an executioners axe is rounded, like a crescent.  Same principles.
question: How does the slant of the blade on a guillotine lead to a cleaner cut?Does it have something to do with pressure, or am I way off here? answer: I believe it is generally about combining the effects of slicing through an object and chopping through it.

First we need to think of the concept of sharpness, where a surface is sharp when it has as small a surface area making contact with another surface. A needle is sharper than a blade, because it only makes contact at a single point, but a blade is more effective at cutting because the linear path of the edge creates a clean straight path that the rest of the blade can continue to be drawn through when cutting, whereas the point of the needle digs into the surface it's penetrating and resists being drawn in any direction.

Chopping can be thought of as applying a direct pressure of a bladed edge on a surface, hoping for the kinetic energy of the blade, and the sharpness of the cutting surface to drive a wedge far enough through the object to sever it. Chopping action basically stops once all the kinetic energy has been imparted, and you have to pull the blade back out and try again if you didn't make it all the way through. The less sharp the blade, and the more tough the surface, the less likely it'll get through, and probably just crush it somewhat.

Slicing, on the other hand, is about drawing a sharp edge across the surface, trying to minimize the amount of edge-to-surface contact as possible (which effectively increases the sharpness), and allows more of the length of the blade to be used in the cutting action. Basically, slicing can be conducted for the full length of the blade, and the less of the blade making contact at any given time means the slicing is more effective. Slicing is most effective when the direction of the cut is not traveling straight through the surface, but drawing against it at an angle.

You can try this, take a pair of scissors or a straight edged knife, place one edge of the blade flat against a piece of paper and try to cut it just by driving the edge straight through. If this doesn't work so well, try placing the blade against the edge of the paper (minimizing the contact surface) and drawing the blade through it. It should slice much more easily this way.

Now, onto Guillotines. They work by combining both chopping and slicing. The momentum of the blade falling is the chop. The angle of the blade allows the slicing action to be concentrated on a single point of the neck at any given time, and extends the length of the blade during the slice as it both drives and draws through. It also makes the direction of most resistance no longer ~~perpendicular~~ directly opposed to the blade as it moves, which is what would make it most likely to resist the cutting action.

**TL;DR**: momentum of blade = chopping, angle of blade = slicing + longer cutting edge + non-perpendicular angle of resistance. Chopping + slicing = quicker, cleaner, more effective cut
question: How does the slant of the blade on a guillotine lead to a cleaner cut?Does it have something to do with pressure, or am I way off here? answer: Thanks guys. I've always wondered why the slanted blade was better at cutting heads off over the straight blade, now I know it's because it applies the same force over a smaller area :)
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: The main argument most people use against socialism is that you're forced to give away your hard earned money to assist other people. Key word there being forced.

I personally agree with socialism to an extent; I think we should provide food, clothing, shelter and health insurance to everyone who can't afford it. I don't agree with providing cash just the necessities.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: I'll try to answer this the best I can.

Many Americans really don't like taxes, they hate them so much they fought a war so they wouldn't have to pay for a previous war.  They also don't like being ordered what to do, so the first 10 Amendments to their Constitution severely limits how the government could order it's citizens around.

So because Americans don't like paying taxes and don't like being ordered around, they definitely do not like being ordered to pay more taxes to help someone else.  It's not that Americans aren't generous, many choose to give to numerous charities, but the fact that they're being ordered to give to someone else really rubs them the wrong way.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: Remember that the same exact Red Scare-like counterpart was created in the Soviet Union, except the enemies were the Americans and the dirty word was capitalist or bourgeois. Both sides did it to their people to make them fear and hate each other, and thus be ready to ultimately to take arms and die to protect their corporate owners.

It's the never-ending cycle of finding a virtual enemy and blaming everything on it, it comes in all sorts of flavor. We should ask Sweden if socialism is the devil and many people seem to think.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: I don't understand why people cant ever think that Socialism and Capitalism could be compatible. Honestly, combine the two and you get a Social Democracy that still has a mostly Capitalist economy no?
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: The Communist Manifesto depicts the undoing of capitalism.  Now this doesn't seem like too big a problem when said like that but the people who controlled the United States freaked the fuck out!  If capitalism is going to be replaced by communism then there would be rebellion, war, and people would lose power.  And so a huge propaganda campaign started that painted the USSR (and by extension, Communism) as America's arch-enemy.  Events like The Bay of Pigs and the McCarthy Trials radicalized the divide, throwing in irrational fear and forever cementing leftism as un-American.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: I have no idea why this is being downvoted.  This gets at the heart of American politics.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: Thanks for asking this. Living outside the US this confuses me so much.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: Because America doesn't get communist influence from it's neighbors, unlike Europe, where countries are more geographically closer together. Here in Finland communism can't be a boogeyman when St. Petersburg is only a 2-hour drive away and you can go check it out for yourself. Europe has been in the crossroads between American capitalism and Russian socialism/communism and absorbed a lot of good ideas from both, which spawned the Scandinavian welfare state model over time. It's not a secret that communist influences do a lot of good too in terms of strengthening the worker's rights. 

Now, America doesn't have this luxury. The only communist state near it is puny little Cuba, while Russia and China are literally on the other side of the globe. America doesn't have a communist counterweight which has resulted in it developing into a fully capitalist society.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: Socialism is too ambiguous a term.  I think most Americans conceive socialism as synonymous with state welfarism.  Is this what you are referring to?   

Broadly speaking, the means of accomplishing socialist goals usually involve the threat of force by a collective levied against the individual.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: Just throwing this out there, but a recent podcast by Dan Carlin has some cool insight into your question:

_URL_0_
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: The main problem that most see with socialism is its connection to communism, or rather its perceived connection. Many Americans do not know the difference.
In addition the idea goes beyond what typical American ideology is which rather then to help everyone is much more of help myself.

The second biggest contribution here is the fear that socialism leads to dictatorships. Typically the idea sprouts as "everyone will help everyone while still being free" but the problem arises when one person says, "don't worry, I'll tell you what you need". 
That person often ends up a dictator. At least this is how Americans perceive it.

Many do not see the socialism in this country already, such as public schools, police, fire, roads, post, ect. Because of that they can not see small steps towards a better tomorrow because again they perceive it as socialism which as stated above is greatly misunderstood by the people.

The final piece to this puzzle is the rising theocracy ideals in presidential candidates. The general idea for theocracy if it followed the morals they want us to believe that we should all follow wouldn't be so bad, but rarely if ever has a theocracy shown to be productive and produces and entirely different and often negative style of governing from socialism.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: a) For better and worse, we're an individualistic society. We don't want to sacrifice to better the collective. More than that, we can't even think in those terms very well. b) We know enough history to know that Communism has a bad track record. We don't know enough theory to differentiate between the ideological backbone and the historical manifestation. c) Fear of change. America, historically, is such a melting pot that our common culture is driven by consumerism. Without it, a lot of people would be confused as to their roles, if not their values. d) Part of any political system's agenda is the propagation of that system. From elementary school on, we've been taught that American democracy is the city on the hill. Despite many disenfranchised and frustrated people, the current system is (at least structurally) stable.

Edit: let's say "we" is 4 AM shorthand for Americans who haven't thought critically about their potential bias.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: It's because we're a Christian nation and Jesus was very clear when he said that we should accumulate wealth and tell lazy poor people to get the fuck out of our way.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: people believe socialism is "foreign" and "un-american". 

being afraid of socialism has to do often with the will to follow traditions of capitalism, but can also be an actual economic concern.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: When did this turn into r/circlejerk?  Keep this shit to r/politics man.  Seriously.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: Socialism never took root in America because the poor see themselves not as an exploited proletariat but as temporarily embarrassed millionaires.

Also, there is a bit of depth to this fear.  I believe a lot of it stems from people who are irritated by the 'hippies who want handouts'.  People usually also hold the view that they don't want their government turning into a 'nanny state' whose operations cost taxpayers extra money for its inflated bureaucracy leading to overhead costs due to the legislations made to create social welfare programs to help people, after all, the government doesn't do things as efficiently as the private, capitalist industry (/s).  Lastly, [moral hazard](_URL_1_) is a concept held closely by a lot of the intellectual anti-socialist crowd.  Moral hazard is basically the idea that if you are insured from risk, you are more likely to act riskier.  If your nanny state government insures you from going completely bankrupt by providing you food stamps and welfare checks, you are less likely to find a job that would help you climb out of your debts sooner.

While I believe some of these talking points have important information to pull away from it, it just simply is a terribly cynical view of humanity.  We don't live in a purely capitalist society right now, it operates based on 'socialist' regulations and we all drive on roads built from 'socialist' legislation.  A true capitalist society means that power is achieved by capital, ie resources.  And I don't see how this is any different from anarchy.  In a stateless soceity, the people with the most resources will have the most influence.

My biggest gripe against conservatives is the idea that social healthcare should 'never ever' be implemented because it's too expensive.  It's as if they are reading this out of some bible, some rule of life.  It's purely ideological.  A basic, accountable form of social healthcare, one that conducts voluntary tests on its population to help prevent epidemics, is certainly a necessity.  And I don't think leaving those types of responsibilities up to a deregulated/unregulated private industry who answers to shareholders first would be the best thing for society.  Hence, some form of socialism is necessary for, well, our social health.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: I'll address the "what sustains it" question, because I think understanding the origin of the fear is as simple as them being our enemies. It's pretty much exactly what happens every time we have an enemy. Not only propaganda, but also the natural instincts of humans to defend their group. 

So, my theory for why this fear is still sustained is that communism has turned out to be the most convenient 'other' for (especially right wing) politicians to use. One reason it is convenient is because by picking something radically left-wing as the enemy, you can associate our own left wing with it. Picking radical Islam as the enemy, for example, was less effective because it has helped contribute to a rise in atheism and weaken the base for the right wing. At the same time, it increased nationalism, so it wasn't all bad, but I feel like the most calculating and cynical right wing politicians (hypothetical, I'm not trying to build strawmen here) would secretly curse the fact that it wasn't FARC or some other communist faction who engineered the attacks. 

So, basically, my theory is that the fear was sustained by politicians, whether it was purposeful or just because it was a natural enemy.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: One reason is anyone can look at socialist institutions and see how awful they are to market alternatives.

Compare public housing projects to private housing, or compare public schools to private schools, or private bodyguards and security firms to local police.

Virtually anything government produces will cost more and be of lower quality than the market equivalent.

Furthermore, with government control comes all the stupid political bullshit, like blue laws that prohibit selling alcohol on Sundays, or rules against file sharing that would come with government control of ISPs, for just two quick examples.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: As I understand it (ie, only from a pop/news angle), it's that "American dream" that gets in the way of understanding/accepting things like socialism, socialist democracy, etc: 

The overriding theory, even for poor laborers, is that somehow, at some time, everyone can earn their own living, and in this world view, it's a sin to share your hard earned wealth with less successful people. 

But then, I suppose, the question becomes: Where *did* that American Dream world view come from?
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: Most Americans don't know the difference between Communism and socialism.  There was a *lot* of negative propaganda villifying Communism during the Cold War (like the War on Drugs and the War on Terrorism but on an even larger scale) and the older generation still believes most of it.

They might try to come up with rationalizations  &  arguments against it but it really boils down to an instinctive conflict between "Us" and "Them".
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: I don't know what the hell people think america is ?

America [spends a lot on social programs](_URL_2_)

social security,welfare,Medicare, Medicaid are more than 50% of the Us budget. this is not counting the local and state expenses. Which go mostly towards education and other social programs.

It is not communism, which the state owns all means of capital, but it is a combination of socialism and capitalism!!
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was an enemy of the USA for a long time. That fear of the word included in the name of the USSR still lingers to this day.
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: Late to the party, but do you simply want to know why there is such a vitriolic hatred for socialism or why people dislike the notion of socialism on a philosophical level?
question: So I'm in My mid 20's and don't understand why we Americans are so scared of socialism? I read a lot back in the day about Russia Cuba etc and I get the whole not wanting a dictatorship but where does this whole fear/attitude cone from. What sustains it? answer: There are some complicated and subtle explanations for
the perpetuation of irrational fear, but the single biggest reason is "THIS ISN'T WHAT I'M USED TO!!"
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: The short answer about this is that the US *has* officially adopted it. But nobody wants to use it. There's no public will to actually change everything over to standard units, so that doesn't happen. 

But if you talk to scientists, or medical personnel, they will tell you that they use metric at work.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Aerospace Engineer *(emphasis space)* here.

The short answer is we have and we haven't

The long answer is in industries that are collaborative with other countries (Medical, space programs, shipping) we HAVE switched over. (Ever hear a US TV medical show go "I need 20 CC's, STAT!" - CC means cubic centimeter, a metric unit).

In other industries that are more insular and only affect the US, we haven't. Civil engineers still use Kips, feet, pound-feet etc., as do car manufacturers (EDIT Apparently they're metric now), bakers, and your everyday carpenter.

They haven't switched for a number of reasons, but I'll explain why I use meters, Newtons etc for work:

* When doing complex calculations, having everything be multiples of 10 is VERY useful. Making a kilometer into a meter means moving the decimal point 3 to the right, while making a mile into a foot means multiplying by 5280 -- try doing that in your head in 5 seconds. 

* Every paper and textbook in my field is already in SI, so to find a constant or something I need to use in calculations is a breeze in SI but can be a nightmare in Customary.

* Converting to Customary just to convert back to SI can cause errors in measurement that get worse each conversion. It's similar to how you can put a sentence into Google Translate ("I love doing math!"), translate it to a random language--Hindi sounds fun-- then translating it back, only to see your initial input has changed ("I love doing the math"). That is what can happen if you convert too many times.

That all being said, this is why I still use customary at home:

* Converting is annoying and difficult. Even if everyday use doesn't really care about round off errors, I don't want to have to convert 1 Cup of flour to milliliters every time I'm making a cake.

* I know customary more than metric, and it would take a lot of readjusting to get used to an entirely new system. Imagine being told your country was abandoning its language for a new one-- Swahili seems interesting. How long would it take you to get used to speaking Swahili? Would you EVER be fluent? 

* This is the most controversial, but there's no NEED to change. As great as converting by ten is for calculations, most of the time your conversions are very simple or nonexistent (except for the whole pinch-teaspoon-tablespoon-cup-pint thing. ARRRGGGHHH that's more confusing than orbital mechanics). And the smug "Customary units are arbitrary!" people forget that SI is just as arbitrary: some guys in France grabbed a chunk of Platinum and thought 'eh, this is good' and BAM, the kilogram was born.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I'm pretty late to the party here, but I'll chime in anyhow.  The turning point dates back to the Carter/Reagan divide in the 1980 election.  

About the time that everyone else (including England) were switching from English units to metric, Presidents Nixon, Ford, and Carter pushed very hard for America to switch as well.   This was moderately successful, and between congressional action and executive order America began to move toward accepting SI standards.  "Metric" measurements were commonly taught in schools, cars had to report km/h as well as mph, and there was a trend toward acceptance of MKS in daily life.  There were large information campaigns with pamphlets, guides to the metric system, television spots, lesson-plan packets in schools -- even school lunchboxes (remember those?) with the metric system outlined on them.  I still remember a few of them from the late 1970s, but you can find TV PSA spots dating to 1973 on YouTube.

Then Ronald Reagan got elected, on a wave of reactionary resentment against the actions Carter was taking with the economy,  Volcker's "bitter pill" of very high interest rates to curb resource shocks, and "stagflation". But Reagan's campaign was taking no chances, and pulled out all the self-identity stops.  A minor plank in Reagan's platform was to roll back adoption of the metric system, to leverage general grousing and resentment at the changing systems of units into a small additional advantage in the vote.  So in 1981 all motion toward SI for commonplace things in America stopped cold.

That's why, for example, NASA specifies all space hardware in SI units -- but the numbers always turn out to be round numbers in English units rather than in MKS (e.g. the Space Shuttle's dimensions, and the ISS modules' dimensions, are all in round multiples of 25.4mm).

**tl;dr**: SI adoption fell prey to identity politics in the 1980 presidential election.  Ronald Reagan killed it, nobody else picked it up.  And here we are.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Reading these comments has been interesting. For what it's worth, I have a Canadian perspective on all of this. Our government made the decision to swap years ago and faced heavy opposition for the same reasons the US did during their attempt. People claimed that metric was confusing and cited the costs of swapping road network signage over. The government was firm, though, and a couple generations later we are all "fluent" in metric.


The USA never made this swap, though. We are all huddled against the border trying to stay warm.... Through this proximity, most of us having a working knowledge of imperial as well. This leads to some uniquely Canadian issues: We drive in kilometers per hour, and buy our gas and milk in litres. However, if you ask us our height and weight you will most certainly receive it in feet, inches and pounds. The temperature outside? Probably in Celcius, unless you're from the oldest generation.


Personally, I'd like to think we took the best of both worlds. I might just be telling myself that though.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Let's not pretend like the adoption of the metric system is as universal and pervasive as you suggest.  When in the UK I ordered beer by the pint; in Central America I bought much of my produce by the pound and gasoline by the gallon.  The US simply hasn't had a big government-led push to make a changeover happen, and until it does people will continue to use what is familiar and comfortable.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: This isn't the whole answer, but a part no one else has brought up.

Outside Britain and its colonies, customary units varied from place to place within a modern country. A pound in southeastern France was 18% lighter than a pound in Paris. A Japanese cloth foot was 25% longer than a Japanese construction foot. Measurement differences were easily abused by fraudulent sellers. So changing to the metric system was an opportunity for new regimes to unify a chaotic system of measurement. 

England was able to mostly unify its measurement system in the Middle Ages, so it bequeathed a usable system to the modern US. It's not perfect, and there has been some drift between units used when the US broke away and units used when the UK switched to metric. But switching from most countries' patchwork of local customary units in 1850 to a unified English system would be a bigger improvement than switching from a unified English system to a unified metric system.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Drug dealers have been at the forefront of teaching students the metric system for decades. That's how I learned to convert ounces to grams when I was in high-school. 3.5 grams to an eighth an ounce. Metric, Imperial, decimals and fraction conversions all in one little baggie of weed!
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I'm in the UK. Distances are in Miles. Car mileage is in Miles Per Gallon (it's a different gallon, though). Height is feet and inches, and weight is stone and pounds. In the US you buy soda in Liters.

The US is far from alone, ignoring Liberia and Burma, in this. Modern society in many places is just all mixed up.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Don't Forget Belize. 

Why does everyone forget Belize when they bring up the old English system? That tiny relic of British Imperialism shoved on the Isthmus of North America. Inches for days in that place.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Just chiming in to say that Liberia is using both imperial and metric at the same time, but metric has never been made official simply because nobody cares.

The reason for the dual system is that Liberia is still one of the poorest countries on earth, and hence all goods are imported from wherever they can be obtained cheapest.

Now some cars (almost exclusively used ones) are imported from the US, others from Europe, so you'll have gauges in miles and kilometers, as well as fuel indicators in gallons and liters. Same goes for clothes and fabrics - you'll have them in inches and meters. People need to be familiar with both, since the availability varies.

Even some road signs are in km instead of the official miles (distances and speed limits alike), which might be considered as "officially adopted".

Source: Been working there as a development finance specialist about 2.5 years ago.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: The US actually has adopted the metric system. That's why you see it on things like bottles and packaging. The thing is Americans understand the imperial system better so packaging and signage continues to use it alongside the metric system. In order to break the cycle would essentially require banning the imperial measure on packaging and other parts of daily  life until people's perception of measurement changes but since people grew up with imperial measures they think in them. They mentally know a sheet of paper is half an inch shorter than a foot and they can mentally judge feet and inches.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: In defense of the customary system, it has several benefits over the metric system, namely its use of fractions and convenient metrics.
There are 12 inches in a foot because 1/12, 1/6, 1/4, 1/3, and 1/2 of a foot then come out to an integer number of inches. (1,2,3,4,6 respectively). Most of our customary system is in use for this reason. Most all of our measures are maximally divisible for their size. For example 12 (inched in a foot, points in a pica) is divisible by 1,2,3,4,6,12; 60 (seconds in a minute, minutes in an hour) by 1,2,3,4,5,6,10,12,15,20,30,60. The rest are often powers of 2 (2 tablespoons in an ounce, 8 ounces in a cup2 cups in a pint, 2 pints on a quart, 4 quarts in a gallon, 16 ounces in a pound, 2 weeks in a fortnight), so that they can be halved repeatedly with ease. Others are just a maximally divisible number times a power of 2 (24=122 hours in a day).
Other units like the mile used to divide up nicely too, but the units they were based on are now uncommon, likely because we can travel so quickly by car. 
The metric system is instead based on decimals, and its ability to easily convert between units because all units are multiples of ten of the base unit has been much trouted, but it actually adds very little. Sure I can convert 2,000,000 meters into 2 Mega meters, but I could already do that! I just call it 2 million meters. A gigawatt is just a billion wats. This base ten conversion is not a nice property of the metric system then, but a result of any base ten system that has a special word for each third power of ten. We have that too, we just call 2,340,000 ft "2.34 million feet". 
Edit:spelling
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Because that is not something that can be dictated as a country. The Federal government can adopt it for the purposes of the Federal government. Currently the Federal government is "bilingual" and you will see both imperial and metric units on labeled goods and such things as fall under the authority of the Federal government.

However, at a lower level, that is up to each individual state and no state has adopted the metric system. Recently Hawaii and Oregon have proposed bills, but none of have passed. The short (if unsatisifying) answer is: we just haven't decided to as a country.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Because there's really no compelling reason to other than "everyone else is doing it."  Sure, there's the science and engineering argument, but both fields already use metric either extensively or exclusively, so that leaves the everyday use argument, and that just falls apart. 

Kilometers don't make our cities closer together, and Celsius doesn't tell the weather more accurately than Farenheit (I'd argue that Farenheit is superior here).

Plus, there's the cost.  Just changing every single speed limit sign would cost billions.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Why doesn't Great Britain change to drive on the same side of the road as much of the rest of the world?  There would be some minor advantages, and a huge amount of cost.

Go to a hardware store.  Look at the number of products that are sized in nice round numbers of units.  It isn't a simple matter of renaming things, the things are all sized in convenient fractions or multiples of inches (in the US) or meters (elsewhere).  All those parts would have to shift over to things in metric sizes.  They'd be similar, but different.

As noted elsewhere, much of the US is already heavily metric.  Why the rest will shift when it needs to.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I feel like this belongs here:

"In metric, one milliliter of water occupies one cubic centimeter, weighs one gram, and requires one calorie of energy to heat up by one degree centigradewhich is 1 percent of the difference between its freezing point and its boiling point. An amount of hydrogen weighing the same amount has exactly one mole of atoms in it. Whereas in the American system, the answer to How much energy does it take to boil a room-temperature gallon of water? is Go fuck yourself, because you cant directly relate any of those quantities." Wild Thing by Josh Bazell.

Oh and still using a measurement for temperature which is based on the coldest day of the winter of 1708/09 in Danzig is kind of stupid, if you ask me.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Mechanic here. I can tell you bolt head sizes in metric all day, but can't even spit ball what size a bolt is in standard measures.

But if you tell me to go a kilometer down the road, you better change that to "just over half a mile" because metric distances mean nothing to me
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Engineer here. Science has adopted SI globally, so US scientists use SI. Because scientists use SI, most engineers use SI on things that are big, important, and might involve other countries.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: The US tried to switch in the 70's/80's but nobody liked it so it was canceled.  
The STEM fields extensively use the metric system though.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: In general, engineers, scientists, and a few others use metric primarily. I work entirely in metric and only convert back when talking with customers.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I know the oil industry doesn't use it because restrapping, changing the tools and measurement system would cost a lot of money that they don't want to spend. 

My job for a long time was converting from standard to metric based on API gravity or weight in lbs/per gallon at temperasure farenheight to centigrade temperature, density, cubes, and metric tonnes. Plus foreign tankers are all strapped in cubic metres so we have a separate tools for measuring level there than we do with shore tank figures. Thousands and thousands of hours I've spent doing it.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: For most people, whatever measurement system they are familiar with, and is the one they are confident of using, is the one that is better.
People who have learnt metric from an early age, will say metric is better, while people who have learnt Imperial or US Customary measures from an early age will say that Imperial or US Customary measures are better.

However, if one is to take a neutral position, and analyses the metric system, and compare it to any other measurement system, them metric is undoubtably better. 

All counties use metric, although no country is totally metric. Metrication is advancing in all countries, including the US. It has been for at least 100 years, and it will continue to be learnt, understood, and used by more and more people throughout the world every year. It's popularity increases as people see the many advantages of the metric system.


Why is the metric system easier, and better, than Imperial or USC? The most frequently given answers include:

1Because metric is simple and consistent. There is only one meter and one kilometer and one liter..Unlike the mile (3 miles, international mile, US Survey mile, nautical mile.) and two gallons (Imperial gallon and US gallon) metric is simple and less confusing, fewer errors, less cost. 

2Because it dramatically reduces conversion factors in calculations. Less time doing calculations, fewer errors, less wastage in material and time, less cost. 

3Because metric prefixs enable whole numbers only. Avoiding decimal fractions and missinteruptation and errors. 

4Because metric offers units from very large to very small. 

5Because metric dimensions are easier to divide by three. 

6Because it has links between related measurements. 

7Because it uses logical symbols. 

8..Because it is the only properly maintained system. 

9..Because practically everyone uses it. For more than 95% of the world population, the metric system is the customary system of units, and for more than half of the industrialized world, it has been for at least a century.

10..Because when one uses it, there is no need to use any other system of measurement, because it is a complete system of measurement, and everything in the known universe can be measured with it.

Also I believe that the metric system is better than Imperial measures because..

The metric system is a system. The metric system is the only measurement method ever developed as a complete system. All previous attempts used random developments at different places, at different times, and for different purposes.

The metric system is universal. The metric system has been gradually adopted by all of the worlds people. Despite often-vigorous opposition, the metric system has always been successful.

The metric system is coherent. Because the metric system was developed as a complete system, it was possible to design it so that it has an internal consistency. Its internal coherence means that if you learn one part of the metric system you can easily extend your knowledge to all other parts.

The metric system is capable. All crafts, trades, and professions can successfully use the metric system. Although the structure of the metric system is quite simple, it can be used in every human activity.

The metric system is equitable. The metric system is fair and just to all who use it.

The metric system is simple. The metric system uses only 7 base units and 22 units with special names  29 units in all. There are now only 20 old measures left that are non-SI units currently accepted for use with the International System.

The metric system is supported. International treaties and research keep the metric system modern and forward looking.

The metric system is fundamental. The metric system is the only system used internationally. It is now fundamental to all measurements, both old and new.

The metric system is unique. The metric system is unique because: it was planned; it is decimal; it has prefixes; and it is human in scale. It is unique because there has never been a measuring system like it.

The metric system is legal. Legislation in every country in the world supports the metric system. It is often the sole method of measurement recognised by governments. International agreements also support the metric system so that contracts written in metric units have validity across international borders.


The US adopted the metric system, when it was made legal and official in 1866, with the Metric Act, the only measurement system to have an Act of Congress. 
The primary reason that it has never been universally accepted, is because its uptake is voluntary, whereas standard/USC is by default mandatory, and the first measurements learnt in schools, thereby resulting in metric to be mainly understood, through messy and unpopular conversions to standard/USC
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Hey, I'm from India, a metric using country, and let me tell you that we don't just use the metric system, we sometimes use the imperial (american) system sometimes too.

A barber can cut in inches or centimeters. Wood, cloth, tiles, etc. are still measured in inches and feet. Gasoline and other liquids are sometimes measured in gallons. Volume is measured in gallons for devices and appliances. etc, etc, etc.

So in addition to everyone else's answers, the whole world uses both systems whenever it is convenient.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Because people with a deep sense of misplaced patriotism think that we need to be different, thus freedom units^tm.  Plus metrication would cost money and people are weird about how the government spends it.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: The people use both in their lives, but it is very expensive to change all of the signs on roads and other public places.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Isn't a miscalculation between SI and US something that caused one of the Space Shuttle disasters?
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I think this had largely to do with post WWII era construction. America's 'Big Boom' happened in part because most of the world-wide infrastructure for manufacturing was destroyed, damaged, or converted to military hardware during the war. As a result the US, having not lost its factories, became a manufacturing power house. Had we adopted the ISoU prior, the 'inches' would have been a thing of the past. However, even though manufacturing has declined in the last 20 years or so, many generations have been manufacturing on the 'inches' scale. Some industries made the conversion but at times I feel like its just complacency and a lack of desire to change/learn something new.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: We tried and it never caught on.  That's why we have soda bottles in liters. The major soda companies spent quite a bit to switch their production equipment to metric when we tried to change as a whole country. It never caught on and the soda companies didn't see any advantage to spending the money to switch back after the movement died.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Liberia and Myanmar (Burma) are both in the process of switching over to the metric system. The US stands alone.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: As someone who went from never using metric to using it all the time, I think it has to with the people in charge of it becoming the school curriculum nationwide are all old. What they have ingrained is one thing, and for their whole world to change (even in a slight way) is more headache than they'd want. You can teach an old dog new tricks, but why would they want to go out of their way to do it?
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Odd thing is "time" isn't measured in the metric system really unless working with small values...

Second 
Millisecond  
Microsecond   
Nanosecond   
Picosecond   


But conversely, there's no kilosecond, megosecond, gigasecond, terasecond, unless talking about astronomical values I think. Instead, we use minutes/hours/days/months/years.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: As a side note, many lives have been lost and billions have been spent because of errors while converting
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: As others have said, when the United States tried to switch over to the metric system about 40 years ago, the public didn't take to it. But have you noticed that the switch was never really implemented in full? 

Here's an example: what do you think the cost would be to replace all those mile markers, one every tenth of a mile, along all 47,856 miles of interstate highways in the country? Not to mention the signage along non interstate highways! 

It's just too damn expensive!
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I don't understand why there can't be a slow and steady initiative to gradually ween off the imperial system and use the metric system. 

Mandate it in all our schools to to put a much heavier emphasis on the metric system. 

Add kilometers/meters to road signs in addition to the existing Miles. So when you're driving on an interstate, you'll see a sign that says something like, "Los Angeles: 345 Miles / 555 Kilometers"
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: For much the same reason that we use QWERTY keyboards instead of Dvorak. The productivity gains wouldn't feel worth the investment of time and mental energy to convert for most of us.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: We do use it, I personally use it in engineering. Most people choose not to because they grew up with the standard.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: At least in the field of civil engineering, switching over would cause a decade of stagnation, not to mention most of the practitioners losing productivity on a large scale for a LONG time. They (we) would lose our intuition for the numbers.

I personally don't see how English vs. SI units measure things any differently; it's arbitrary what you use.

I used both systems extensively in school, and it's not really that hard to use either one. I think you should have to explain why we should exclusively use one system of units, other than the argument "it just makes sense."
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Metrologist here. The official measurement system is metric SI in every country. This provides a traceable path to the 7 standard units of the SI. All primary standards operated by that country's national measurement system will be expressed in units derived from those units. E.g. Volume is length^3 in units of metres. 

This is different to what the general public sees. However, the true amount of something will be based on the SI, then converted to customary units using a defined conversion factor.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: The same reason we still have the electoral college and marijuana legislation. It's yet another outdated thing we've never bothered to get rid of that causes a lot of problems, but not enough for people to stick their necks out and solve.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: It would expensive to change over all the signs for speed limits and distances but mostly there is no will to change. The mindset is, it has always been this way and it works why change it now?
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Every other country had a plan and stuck to it.  The US had a policy that metric was better, but conversion had to be voluntary.

The Metric Act of 1866 let everyone be as metric as they wanted to, so those who wanted to metricate did so and ignored those who didn't. (The domestic auto industry converted in the 70's).  In some ways, this makes metrication harder, as those who wish to metricate just do, leaving only the opposition caring enough to be vocal.  The politicians listen to the vocal and continue to insist metrication be voluntary.  The pols don't even realize how many industries and multinational corporations in the US are metric.

The auto industry has a lot of leverage with its supply base and forced them to metricate as well.  Smaller companies may have more of a problem buying metric parts they need at fair prices.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: One big reason is the interstate system. Changing all the speed limit signs would be expensive, and people would have to get used to it, but also how the exit systems work. The exits arent just numbered 1,2,3,4 etc. They are numbered by what mile they are, so if you are at mile 14, you pass exit 1r, but the next exit might not be for 3 miles which would be exit 17, skippinh 15 and 16. 

Also the interstates have mile markers on the side of the road every 1/10 of a mile, so that would have to be changed too. 

Ut would be HUGELY expensive for no benefit other than a slightly easier system for conversions.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Automotive industry is mostly metric with a little standard tossed in.  Short of older classics and some early 90's vehicles, I couldn't tell you the last time I used a standard tool short of improvising.  Engine sizes are metric, bolts, nuts and many parts are labeled in metric.  However hoses, lines, and similar items are often in standard.   


The odd ball is wheels and tires.  Tires incorporate both in their sizing.  225/60r16?  That's 225mm tread width, fitting a 16 inch wheel with a sidewall ratio of 60% the tread width.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Because we don't have to.  There is no real drive to change.  We are a big enough country and most of us only interact with Americans that there is little incentive to change.  When we collectively have to interact regularly with people on the Metric system, then we will more happily embrace it.  There is no need to government mandate 'force' it.
Same with learning a foreign language.  When our population really needs to collectively learn a foreign language, we will....until then, we don't need to.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: It is hard to change a thing we're all used to and most people refuse to change or learn new system. But what we can do is a gradual change, starting from the scientific community, where they really do understand the advantages of the metric system and go from there. NASA have already adopted the metric system after the big snafu a few years ago. We can do it!
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: What's funny is how metric has (to some people's POV) "infiltrated" the U.S. just for practical reasons. Go look at your Jack Daniel's bottle. See that word near the bottom? It reads "Litre."

Europe is a huge market, so they're kind of calling the tune on that and other beverages. It's not the old guy sippin' whiskey on his Kentucky porch that demanded his "fifth" switch to metric units.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: It is slowly changing as schools are no longer concentrating on teaching inches and ounces as measurement , it does take time though but as kids grow up they will understand what mm and cm are more than inches and feet.

Do they still teach inches and feet in the US schools?

Right now everything in the uk is labeled in both.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Imperial units are still the standard in some fields.  International aviation uses nautical miles as the standard of distance and feet as the standard of altitude.  I would imagine the same for nautical navigation, but my experience has been in the air.

Edit: As for the reason why, because it's a hassle.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Interestingly enough in the North Sea we still use Customary units for oilfield work (lb, US gallons, US barrels, PSI, etc.) but when reporting to clients that are Europe based we have to convert over to bar, kg, m3, L etc.  In Canada they use all metric in their oilfield units.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I always thought it was to befuddle possible invaders. And so our spy's could report if any national forces are learning miles/feet, causing them to show their hand.

I'm not right, never thought I was. I'm gonna keep using my explanation when I hear it mentioned.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Because the British suck. They arrested the French Ambassador who brought it to us, and he got chucked in a Caribbean jail and ended up dying before being able to deliver it.

So yeah, thanks British empire, again.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I read that machinist unions oppose metric whenever that discussion comes up because many of the measurements in hardware are done in respect to inches.  Screws, sockets, etc.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: It is because adjusting to new things is tough on people. Kind of like Burma nowadays is called Myanmar but people keep calling it Burma. ;-)
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: I never get this question.  We officially adopted the metric system long ago.  Does it not count until we criminalize use of standard units?
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: It's not true, many countries still use a mix of units, especially European counties.  Example, The UK still posts speeds in MPH.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Have you ever seen parents try to teach "new math" I'd imagine changing the measuring system would be disastrous lol
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Americans don't want to have to learn anything "new".

See Common Core and the outrage it has created.
question: why is the US the only country, apart from Liberia and Burma, not to have adopted the International System of units? answer: Didn't the Reagan administration decide not to switch because they wanted to minimize unnecessary spending?
question: Why can't California build some sort of filtration system and use water from the Pacific? answer: Desalination takes a fuckload of power.

When there are natural disasters like hurricanes and earthquakes, the US Navy sometimes sends an aircraft carrier to help with recovery. A nuclear-powered aircraft carrier can desalinate about 150,000 gallons of water a day. California uses about 38 billion gallons of water a day, or about 250,000 aircraft carriers' worth.

So: Step 1 toward massive desalination is to build thousands of power plants, nuclear or otherwise.
question: Why can't California build some sort of filtration system and use water from the Pacific? answer: They are building desalination plants. The problem is that it takes a lot of power to filter seawater, a lot of time to build the plants, and a lot of plants to meet the volume of water needed.
question: Why can't California build some sort of filtration system and use water from the Pacific? answer: Why not haul some ice down from the arctic? Maybe Shell can do it after they kick those Greenpeace fools off of their exploration platform?
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: >  sex is more natural than violence

I'm curious to hear your rationale for making this statement when violence, just like sex, is clearly natural and happening all around us virtually all the time, in all kinds of species.
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: Well for the most part it has to do with cultural expectations and other stuff. Some places have lots more sex on tv and less violence on tv for cultural reasons (looking at u germany). 

*This is my very uneducated take on it from an individual level*. -- But i guess you could also describe the phenomena using neurology and psychology. Humans have "mirror neurons" that help us with empathy. We see someone doing something and mimic that internally. Watching people be intimate while around others might cause a dissonance if that level of intimacy isn't already found in the group.
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: Sex is no more or less "natural" than violence. Humans have been engaged in both for as long as we've been human.

But there is still a difference between the two that runs far deeper than cultural expectations. Sex is almost invariably considered a *private* matter. It's something people do out of sight. And sex isn't something that you do with just anyone either, and for most people, only one at a time. It's deeply personal, and most people--across cultures--are *very* uncomfortable discussing their own sex lives, particularly in public. 

Violence, on the other hand, is often *very* public, even inherently so. War, for instance. And for much of history, judicial punishments involved public corporal punishment, whether it be flogging or execution. The municipality's weekly hangings were considered wholesome family fun, as morbid as that sounds today. Indeed, private violence is often far more uncomfortable for many people than public violence. A street mugging is bad, but domestic abuse is in many ways far *worse*, precisely because the violence is hidden from public view.
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: Sex is no more or less natural than violence. We are a very violent species. And Predator Prey relationships are all around us in other parts of nature. 

The thing in issue here is cultural expectations. Violence is a public act, sex a private act. We as a species value and protect those thing in the private spheres of our lives.
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: You're an argumentative narrow minded arrogant little cunt aren't you. You asked people to explain something like you're five and then you fucking debate their answers with them. Not really making sense. 

Sex and violence are equally natural to humans no matter what you think. Whilst you may live in privilege and have avoided violence in your everyday life it is a very real and daily thing for millions of people. 

One reason violence is OK to be viewed versus sex is that sex is supposed to be private and intimate whilst violence is often perpetrated in a public place. 

Another is because of cultural and religious views on sex.
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: In our culture, sex is a private matter whereas violence is not.

Therefore sharing a violent moment with someone - e.g. watching it on a screen - is less inherently uncomfortable than sharing a sexy moment in the same way. 

As will all these things, of course YMMV and exceptions apply.
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: You answered your own question.  Sex is more natural in most of our lives. Therefore, most of us relate to it as a very real and private part of our lives. So, when we watch it with other people, it feels awkward. As if that person is now in that private place with us.  

On the other hand most of us do not commit violent acts regularly so there is no personal association with it to feel awkward about.
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: I think sex is kind of way more personal to people, and any individual might get weirded out about sharing their views / connecting with people on it.  Whereas violence is everywhere (sex is too, but strictly talking exposure), just as a casual thing, life is violent probably way more often than its sexy.  I like Bruce Campbell said "You can show a breast being cut off, but you can't show it being kissed"
question: Why do we feel more uncomfortable viewing sex than viewing violence when others are around us? Given that sex is more natural than violence, shouldn't it be the opposite?[removed] answer: It's learned behaviour. You're taught that seeing sex in the presence of others should make you feel awkward and you're taught that violence is fine. 

It's also context dependent. Watching people grind in a club probably wouldn't make you feel that awkward. On the other hand, watching someone beat their girlfriend in front of you would probably make you feel really awkward (among other things).
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Usually in the US there is no expectation of privacy when one is outside visible to public.  I can go outside and take pictures of random people and I do not require their permission; those people can request that I not take their photo, record them on video, or censor their face or whatever but I do not have to comply.

We have a TV reporter here that records videos of random people after they have violated some law, often to their disapproval: _URL_0_ .  He does not require their permission because they are in public and plainly visible.  These videos get broadcasted on the TV news.

Here's another fun one: _URL_1_
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: There are a number of factors at play... In general, in most places in the world, you (as an individual) have no legal expectation of privacy in a public place.

I can photograph or film you in public and do whatever I like with those photos and I have not breached your privacy.

This even extends to private places that I can see from a public places. The paparazzi exploits this with telephoto lenses to get photographs of celebrities in ostensibly private places.

But it can be more complicated. If I recontextualize your image in a way that could be damaging to you somehow, or unjustifiably show you in a unflattering situation, then you may have some legal recourse against me.

So if I took a photo on a public street and then put it on a website warning that **Pedophiles Could Be Anywhere**, then a person clearly identifiable in that image could sue me for damaging their reputation.

That's an extreme example, but it's the reason that TV shows and documentary films require release forms and often blur faces of those who do not sign releases. 

By getting a release form (usually very broad, allowing the company to do basically whatever they want) they are protecting themselves legally against potential lawsuits.

Blurring the faces of those who don't sign a release then attempts to avoid the issue by making sure people aren't identifiable. 

As a documentary filmmaker (I'm currently producing and directing a feature documentary) I don't really *need* release forms, and I probably wouldn't have to blur anyone's face... but without taking those steps I also won't be able to sell my film to any distributors as they will be unwilling to risk the legal liability that skipping those steps could entail.

In film and TV production there's something called E & O (Errors and Omissions) Insurance - basically it's insurance against being sued. It's generally required to sell a film for exhibition or broadcast. Without taking all possible steps to limit potential legal exposure a production will find themselves either unable to get E & O Insurance, or facing high premiums and excesses.  

The same is broadly true of blurring logos and artworks in the background of reality TV and documentaries. There's no legal need to do so in most cases (although context can change that) but it's become a standard practice and no-one is willing to take the chance on not doing so now.

TL;DR - It's not really *necessary* to get release forms or blur faces of people filmed in public, but concerns over possible legal exposure have made it standard practice in film and TV.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Public figures are an exception to the usual rule about owning images of yourself. You are perfectly free to use the image of a public figure, provided you don't imply endorsement.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Attorney here. 

The issue isn't that you take video/photos of people in public. For that, one has no reasonable expectation of privacy in public spaces and can be filmed/photo'd. 

The issue is what you do with the material after filming. If you directly monetize the film/images, you are now violating the filmed person's right. It is not exactly a privacy right - rather, it's best labeled as a person having a right to his own image. If you are selling images of a person (without their consent) you are violating this right. 

So, you might be wondering - aren't newspapers/tabloids/news shows filming Celebrity X and then using that to sell papers/ad space? That would violate the person's right to their image, no? Not exactly. Because they are celebrities, it appears every public move they make is newsworthy. If an item is newsworthy, it has major "social value" and has virtually no restrictions. If it were a non-celebrity, you could make the argument that it is not newsworthy and deserves some degree of restriction. 

However, let's use the same set up. We film Celebrity X at a nightclub. She's drunk and belligerent. We put this video on our website and charge subscribers to see only this particular video. That act is violating the celebrity's right to image. We're directly monetizing that specific celebrity and video. 

But, if we put it up on our website and allowed all users (paid or not) to view the video, that is acceptable. Yes, the item will generate publicity and greater ad revenues for the site - but that is not a direct monetization of the celebrity's image. Therefore, it is fine and legal.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: I'm a Journalist and I understand Privacy laws. This is my first reddit post and I created an account just so I could help inform you. 
The difference in private citizens vs. public figures is that as private citizens we have a right to be left alone, we own our likeness in the way that we can control how our image is used when it comes to the publicity of our likeness (people can't use your image in a defamatory manor or in a way that shows you in a false light). 
Ask not to be filmed or featured in anything for any reason you can think of. Flying Spaghetti Monster, pick a reason, it doesn't hurt to ask. A lot of people in the profession will oblige and delete an image they took that may contain your likeness. Though they do not have to, and they can use your likeness as long as they aren't using it for endorsements, etc. Remember the press operates on the Bill of Rights so be a badass American and keep in mind they have the right to be there filming just as much as you have the right to be walking in the same area at the same moment. As a private citizen it can be scary when you suddenly realize you're on camera. We understand that and generally respect it. 
When a person becomes a celebrity or of celebrity status they are thrusting themselves into the spotlight. By doing so they have subsequently surrendered their right to privacy in public places. Their likeness or an image of them can then be used to sell magazines by plastering their faces on the cover, but a publication can not use a celebrities likeness to sell a product or endorse anything at all without their consent. 
Other kinds of public figures include people like the Governor of a state, a police officer, members of Congress. These people have accepted a position of public service and are responsible to and answer to the public. That being said, they can be filmed or have their likeness taken while in the performance of their duties to the public. This is where privacy meets Sunshine Laws, which are awesome in a redacted sort of way...
When it comes to photographing someone in their home you may absolutely do so. However, you must be standing on public property like a sidewalk and you can NOT use a zoom lens. The image must depict what is humanly possible to see from public space. 
When you can but shouldn't take a photo of a public figure. If you were to snap a photo of a police officer struggling with a man covered in blood. At that point it becomes a medical issue and the medical privacy of a person is nearly absolute. Say the man he were to be struggling with had HIV/AIDS, if you were to publish that image you would out the officer as possibly having contracted a deadly disease which is now a privacy issue even though he is responsible to the picture taker. 
You can not take a picture into the back of an ambulance and should never photograph someone receiving medical treatment. 
I hope I answered some of your questions, if you have any more please ask.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: In Germany, you are allowed to take and publish pictures of big groups of people as long as no one stands out dominantly, like, for example, on a public square. 
But if you take a picture or video of one person, or a few, you have to ask them for permission to publish it. If they don't you can still publish it, but have to make them unrecognizable. 

Persons of public interest are exempt, but their kids or family are not. 
Only if you are the one that's actively looking to be in the limelight (mostly through your job), you have to live with your picture being published without you being asked. That's why stars and politicians are in the news all the time. 

I believe there might be something about when they could have expected to be in privacy, though. Like sunbathing topless on a remote property but being photographed via mega-zoom-lens by a paparazzi. They might try and get these removed. But I'm not 100% sure there.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Answer for germany:

People have a right to pictures that are taken of them. Everybody and anybody can request that a picture of theire face must not be taken. 

But, celebrities are by definition a "person of public interest", so then it is allowed, because the "public interest" is deemed to be of higher value then the right of the person regarding pictures of themselfes.

It is a different story if that celebrity makes an obvious attempt at privacy, like "being at home" and "closing the curtains". This is considered to be theire private area and even paparazzi are not allowed to breach that.

If the same celebrity is seen walking through the city "in public", a "person of public interest" can not request to not have you take pictures.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Keep in mind that when those photos are unflattering they are called "harassment" but when they are flattering they are called "free publicity".
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: It depends on what you use the picture for. GENERALLY speaking, if you use photos of people in public for news or informational purposes, you do not need to get their permission. However, if the video or photo is going to be used in a form of entertainment or advertising, you ahve to get the person's permission (usually in the form of a signed release).  

To answer directly: the faces blurred are showing up mostly in reality TV shows because they didn't sign a release to be used on a TV show that's counting as entertainment. You don't see these faces blurred, for instance, on evening news shows. 

Celebrities and paparazzi photos technically fall under press/news/information (though it starts to get hazy where the line really is between that and entertainment). They're enormously profitable, and used in magazines. These celebrities are photographed in public where anyone is allowed to be photographed w/o permission. However, you can't just use these pics for entertainment or advertising purposes. So no ads, no movies, no TV shows.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: This isn't actually an expectation of privacy question (which dictates WHERE AND WHEN a photograph may be taken and used).  This is a news v entertainment question.  

The news does not need your permission to broadcast your image/likeness but a program that exists for entertainment does. If you're at the mall and a news crew is shooting a story there, they don't need to get you to sign a release.  If you're at the mall and a reality show is shooting there, they DO need your permission to show you on TV. (though this permission can be as explicit as a form you sign or through posted as sign in a location - a restaurant for example - and saying that by entering the establishment you grant permission.

Like them or not paparazzi fall under 'celebrity news' and therefore can photograph news worthy persons or stories without permission. 

If we start talking about whether or not a paparazzo can shoot through your bedroom window THEN we are having a conversation about reasonable expectation of privacy.  

TL;DR - News = no permission to use likeness, non-news = must get a signed release or blur the likeness.  Source: 18 years making/producing/editing TV.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Because the Supreme Court cases that control this country's laws regarding defamation, publication of private documents, slander, use of likeness and whatnot turn partly on whether the information being published is of public concern. Where it is of public concern, a court reviewing a claim by the person whose information is being published would be more likely to allow the publishing. Where it's a private matter, there's no legitimate public interest in allowing publication of it, and so the private interests of the individual take the forefront.

In particular (source: California bar review notes on privacy torts), a publisher of confidential information about another individual, who causes the information to be widely disseminated, and the dissemination of the information would be objectionable to the average person, then the person who caused the material to be so published is liable for damages. If, however, the information is "newsworthy," then such functions as an absolute defense to a claim for damages for disclosure of private information.

Therefore, photos about some Joe Schmoe coming out of a grocery store with two bottles of vodka and a pack of condoms would probably not be something you could publish without incurring civil liability. But, if that person was someone in the news all the time (and yes, that level of bootstrapping is allowed... newsworthy information is information portrayed on the news.... they can, quite literally, elevate anything to that level), then the information may be newsworthy, and so someone publishing such a photo might have a valid affirmative defense.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: I won't explain why it is or isn't allowed as it depends on the country/state, probably. For example, here in Spain everyone is allowed to show images of anyone as long as are taken in public places, there is no distinction between public and "private" person. Only exeptions are police forces and kids under 18yo. I'll try to answer two questions that should be true anywhere: 

*Why sometimes they take and publish illegal photos knowingly?* The fine for taking such photos is lower than the money paid for them, and paparazzi know it. The same is true for the magazines, they have legal advisors that tell the directive the cost of publishing those photos so they can decide if it's worth the risk. Sometimes the photo is so good it alone can increase the sales of this specific magazine issue, sometimes, by constantly publishing illegal photos they can increase the number of subscriptors and long term revenue.

*Why sometimes they blurry faces of some people even if they are not required to do so?* Bear in mind that most of the time those people are working WITH the magazine or the TV station. By accepting their conditions you have a higher possibility of getting a personal interview or some exclusive content. On the other hand, if you annoy them there is a chance they will never answer your questions or even ban you and anyone from your company from their events.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Situation in Germany: You are not allowed to take pictures of individual persons without their consent. However, you can take pictures in public with many persons on them because oftentimes it's unavoidable, and one has to expect being photographed when going to crowded places. Celebrities are a whole different thing. Because of the general public's interest in them, the privacy protection for them is much weaker. 

TL;DR In Germany: photo of single individuals no, photos of crowds yes, photos of celebrities most of the time ok.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Many of these photos are actually setup by their PR people. This is to keep celebrities in view. You will often see them show up a lot right before some movie is announced (that they are trying to be part of), or it comes out (to draw people in). For athletes, it's right around the beginning of contract negotiations. 

Almost everything related to celebrities is manufactured. 

(Source: worked for a company that did this 15 years ago)
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: A public figure is a legal term applied in the context of defamation actions (libel and slander), as well as invasion of privacy. A public figure (such as a politician, celebrity, or business leader) cannot base a lawsuit on incorrect harmful statements unless there is proof that the writer or publisher acted with malice (knowledge or reckless disregard for the truth). The burden of proof is higher in the case of a public figure.

_URL_2_
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: I've always wondered why celebs don't just wear shirts with paid sponsor logos on them. They're going to show up in paparazzi photos anyway; might as well make some money.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: They bought their tickets, they knew what they were getting into. I say let'em crash!
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Photographer here. As long as you are in public, you are allowed to take their picture and video. Even if they request to blur their face, you don't have to oblige.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: why do i see this question on reddit like every 2 weeks?
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: I can tell you how it is in Germany:

Let's start with an interesting anecdote:
This discussion exists since 1898 in germany, when journalists stormed the room in which bismarck just had died, took photos and published them. Here is one of the pictures taken that day on wikipedia: [Bismarck 1898](_URL_3_)

On the one hand, you have a thing called "Das Recht am eigenen Bild" (translates to "Right of persons to their own likeness" or "persons rights to their own image") which means every person has the right to decide how a picture or video of of them is used. So someone who takes a picture of you is for example not allowed to put it on the internet (which is a big issue with blogs/social networking sites).

On the other hand, you have "die Pressefreiheit" and "die Kunstfreiheit" (translate to "freedom of press" and "freedom of art"). Freedom of press allowes it to publish stuff that is of public interest, this often includes pictures of famous persons doing something that could be interesting. (Again, the social media, internet, blogs, complicate things. What is press? What is media?)

So you have 2 or more rights, guaranteed by the  german constitution, that contradict each other. So you have to make a decision, which is more important, a persons rights to their own image or the freedom of press? That's not an easy decision to make, so there is no final answer like "every picture of every famous person can (or can't) be published". Instead, over the the decades and many court cases, the media has a (more or less) good feeling for what is or is not okay. If some celebrity has a problem with the way the media is handling a particular case, he/she can go to court and get a cease and desist order.

(Please note that this is oversimplified to fit eli5 and because I am no expert on the topic)
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: There is a "Photographer's Bill of Rights" which defines reasonable expectation of privacy.

Any place that is viewable from public space, any commercial property without it being posted, or any area where the public might congregate without reasonable expectation for privacy (such as a changing room or bathroom) is open season.

When you see a face blurred out, they've done that for extra protection. They'd win lawsuits, but they don't want to have to engage people in court. It's always better to just have a release form, but that's really a courtesy.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Victims of sexual offences have automatic anonymity in the UK, which is why there are often people with disguised voices and shadowed faces on TV news here. They can waive that right if they wish. I don't know the law for the US, or anywhere else. Just another example why people may have their faces blurred on television. If a media company identified someone who had been a victim of a sexual offence who didn't waive their right to anonymity, they would be breaking the law.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: The second you fall into the category of Public Figure, you basically lose your right to your image. If someone gets a picture of you they can show it anywhere.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: German here, I can't have a dashcam because I might be sued if I give the video away to the police or a insurance company. So there...
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Public figures, like celebrities, don't have the same rights to privacy as ordinary citizens do.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: We have decided that a celebrity is not a people.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: It's an intrinsic social contract created after obtaining the social status of "celebrity."
  
 >  Celebrity is fame and public attention in the media, usually applied to a person, or group of people (celebrity couple, family etc.), or occasionally, to animals or fictional entities. Celebrity status is often associated with wealth (commonly referred to as fame and fortune) and fame can often provide opportunities to make money.
  
I'm not saying it's right or wrong or that I agree or disagree with it but if your brand is you and you're well known across a country it's likely some form of mass media has allowed that to happen. If you're making money from the attention your brand generates then even impromptu public appearances become valuable even if you're not cut in on the deal.
  
In my opinion it's a perverted, unnecessary, and intrusive behavior but I am but one human being in a vast and unforgiving universe. That places the value of my opinion just slightly below the smell of a fart in the middle of a hurricane.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Celebrities' wave some reasonable degree of privacy because their job is to be in the public eye. Normal members of the public enjoy more privacy because it's not their job. If you get into libel/slander, as well,  celebrities have to prove whatever was said was done to attack them (it was malicious) but normal people just have to prove it was false. Both are supposed to have privacy in their homes but have no guarantee of privacy in public. I'm guessing the blurred faces is partially so they agree to be interviewed as well
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: It's the difference between being a public person and not being a public person.

Mind you, "private" people can be thrust into becoming public people. One of the better known legal cases that dealt with this is the security guard at the 1996 Olympics who became the focus of FBI attention as the bomber of the Olympics. He became a public person through no fault of his own.

It doesn't seem very fair, imo, but that's how it goes. Celebs do ask for it, though.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Likely because the broadcast company (read: lawyer) is concerned with the recorded people suing them for using their image ("likeness" under the law) to make money (for commercial use) without their permission (consent).  Many state laws excuse (exempt) news reporting and other similar activities from this.

Many states also view that celebrities have "given up this right to sue" because the theory they have no privacy to protect/act upon.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: From what I've learned, as a celebrity, you're seen as a person of public interest.  This meaning that unless a greater infringement in your privacy is made, say for example, they photograph you while you're taking a dump, you're basicay open game. As said though certain things still have their special rights. Like the rights of privacy in your own home.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: [The Photographers Right handbook](_URL_4_)

 >  > **Permissible Subjects.** Despite misconceptions to the contrary, the following subjects can almost always be photographed lawfully from public places: accident and fire scenes, children, celebrities, bridges and other infrastructure, residential and commercial buildings, industrial facilities and public utilities, transportation facilities (e.g., airports), Superfund sites, criminal activities, law enforcement officers
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Celebrities actively seek public attention (which sometimes become notoriety) as part of their job. They're the opposite of private citizens. And you can't it both ways. You can't pick and choose whose attention you will accept. If you want to maintain personal privacy, then don't go into any form of public life.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: One thing that isn't being mentioned is that celebrities have marketing/pr teams that inform (and sell) information about their whereabouts so that paparazzi is there waiting for them to take photos. They need paparazzi to push their image into the forefront.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: This is a very open question which needs to be slightly more refined. It entirely depends on the type of publication.

Normally blurred faces are people who they don't have model releases for.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: They are allowed to request it, compliance is not compulsory *unless* they can get a court order or injunction. Also, permission must be given by the parents/guardian for any photos/videos of minors.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: I don't understand why celebrities don't wear gopros and record the paparazzi taking their photos, and post it online. Show the world what these vicious photographers look like.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: I have seen this question asked at least 10 times since I have used reddit... seems the search function isn't useful for these people.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: because celebrities tried boycotting the paparrazi, and everyone stopped promoting their shit. They're just as deep in the game as the paps.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Because celebrities who agree to have their face plastered all over town should have no expectation of people not knowing their faces.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: If you want to be a public figure, then you give up some rights to privacy when in public.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: In germany if you become famous, you get limited in your constitutional right for privacy [click](_URL_5_)
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Celebrities sign a photo release waiver with the world when they become celebrities
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Someone should really ELI5 why everyone in USA is obsessed with celebrities...
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Celebrities are actually given preferential treatment, contrary to what you may believe.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: You lose your right to privacy when you hire a publicist.
question: Why are people allowed to request their face be blurred out/censored in photos and videos, but celebrities are harassed daily by paparazzi putting their pics and videos in magazines, on the Internet and on TV? answer: Ask trey parker and matt stone. they have the asnwer.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: Partial explanation: Because they (who are starving) don't own any fertile land, or enough land or enough tools.

The original industrialism in England happened when people were forced off of their land by wealthy and powerful large-scale estate-owners. The people who were forced away became "cheap labour" who could be employed in the cities. Similar things are happening today. People are moving from their self-sufficient lives to work in sweatshops in big cities. Some people see this as a proof of how hard living off the land is. But others, including me, would say that it is because they are effectively forced. Governments make deals with big industries like mining, industrial agriculture etc. and let them buy land for cheap, land that people live on. If the land isn't sold away, they might be forced away by pollution or similar. Or, they are lured away by promises of wealth. Or, they have been specialized and dependent on others in their economy, so they don't have the skills to live off the land completely, and they can not compete with the low prices of large scale producers, so whatever they sold doesn't make them any money anymore.

There is a lot of bribing and corruption going on, but there is also the idea that this behaviour is good for "the economy" of the country. Forcing people from their land not only makes room for large scale production on the country side, it "liberates" people into being cheap labourers in factories, causing overall production to increase. These governments are imitating what happened in England, because they believe that it is "how industrialisation happens" and is the way you must do it.

In Africa, lots of old colonialism plays a big role too. The British, Belgians and others simply took the land, and when decolonisation happened, the land didn't end up back with "the people" but is controlled by wealthy landowners, warlords or corrupt governments.

**TL;DR Just because there is land to be farmed doesn't mean that those who own/control the land are ready to give it up just to be nice to starving people.**
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: Living off the land has always sucked.  Famine has always been a part of any primitive agricultural society.  Nothing has changed.

Of course, Africa's other problem is war, which always makes everything worse.

[Edit] So other people in this thread have given good answers too.  You should read those also.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: OP, the use of 1st, 2nd, and 3rd worlds is out dated. The terms are now developed and developing countries. The 3 worlds theory was used to separate communists, the west, and other countries not involved in the cold war. Since the USSR no longer exists, the theory has no real value today.


As for your questions, I'll try my best to keep it ELI5.

The people who you see starving represent a small, small part of the developing world. Those people are starving because their governments are allowing them to. Their governments can't invest in sectors that would help the nation grow. In this case, it's agriculture. Agriculture is always the first step a country takes to becoming wealthy. It goes agriculture  >  trade  >  manufacturing. 


So you see, the people dying aren't dying because they can't farm. They're dying because they live in an area that *can't* grow food and their government won't help them find jobs in areas that *can* so they can feed themselves.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: Just to clear something up about the term "third world country".

People so often think it means a country that is extremely poor with lots of famine and disease, something like that. It actually just refers to a country that was not allied with the US *or* with Russian during the Cold War. That's it. 

True, *many* "third world" countries are dirt poor, but many aren't. *All* of South America is third world, as is Saudi Arabia, India, and many others.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: First world nations heavily subsidized their farmers. If for examples your growing corn in the United States you may be earning more money from the United States government giving you tax money then from the consumer buying your crops (Depending on the season and area.) 

This causes a problem because in a third world country even if all of your labor is very inexpensive or even free the cost of producing food when you add in the cost of fertilizer, seeds, equipment purchased and repaired may be equal or less then just purchasing food from a Western country. This problem is made worst because people will often donate food to your country and it's difficult to sell your food when there is free food available.

The result of this is that people stop farming and will often move to urban locations or take up different jobs then farming. 

Sometimes the price of food increase in western countries for reason such as increased fuel prices, or market fluctuations. Because third world countries are buying all their food from western countries this hurt them alot more then in Western Countries where the people have more money and more competition to keep prices down.

You'd think that this would then cause people to go back to farming but there is another problem. Farming is both physically difficult and actually requires alot of planing and training. Things like crop rotation, knowing how and when to plow a field and what pesticides prevent which pests require knowledge and experience. Many of these communities don't even have internet access to look up the information on Wikipedia. As such even now when it would make sense to grow your own food and make money, people may not know how to actually do it, or may not have the resources to start farming.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: This isn't really ELI5, but people have always been dying from hunger and famine, it's just a rather recent trend for us to care about it.

There's a saying that poor people in these places are up to their necks in water and all it takes is a small ripple to submerge them "the ripple that drowns," as it is known.  These are the people who try to live off the land, and barely scrape by year after year, then one year the crops fail and they have no food or money to feed themselves.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: I always picture trying to explain the wide gaps humans have in technology levels to aliens. 

* Alien: "Okay so these humans on this part of the planet live in climate controlled homes and drive SUV's, over here on this patch of land we have humans who live in huts and have trouble surviving their first year of life..."

* Me: "Uh well you see... it's uh... yeah... wanna play some Call of Duty?!"
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: In Somalia, for example, unstable government does not allow farmers to stay in one place for a growing season. In addition the lack of safety inhibits people from investing in agriculture. Adding in a drought, the situation gets even worse.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: Sometimes it's because the constant air-drops and free food put the farmers and workers out of business and falls into a rut because no one has to work.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: Just to add on to what everyone else has already expertly explained, recent trends in extreme climate patterns probably aren't helping either.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: People have always starved when there are famines or droughts, escaping this is a relatively modern phenomena. We have more people on this earth than ever before, but the same amount of earth. Can you live off of the land? Society moves forward with specialization, but as a cost we are at the mercy of the capricious economy. This is especially true for poor developing countries.
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: play this game!  3rd world IS outdated.  we say "developing world" or maybe "global south" nowadays.  these are the day to day dilemmas you might face if you're lucky enough to have land to begin with.  try to imagine the "macro" problems that manifest in the "micro" ones in the game...
_URL_0_
question: why people in third world countries starve when people used to be able to live off the land?I am not trying to judge them in any way, just something I think about sometimes.  We hear all the time about people in Africa etc. dying of thirst and hunger.  People have lived there for a long time, and somehow survived off the land.  What changed? answer: Because there are a hell of a lot more people in those regions today than there were when people lived a hunter-gathere lifestyle. Also, don't kid yourself, being a hunter gatherer wasn't all fresh mango and topless ethnic looking chicks, hunter-gatherers died of starvation all the time.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: When you open the fridge, some of the cold air inside is replaced by warm air from outside. On closing, you trap this warm air inside. It really quickly cools down and therefore "shrinks" a little bit. This causes a slight underpressure inside the fridge. On a big fridge door this tiny pressure difference can even be enough for you to be unable to pry it open by hand. With time, the pressure equalizes with the outside due to the less than perfect seal (and a tiny hole for condensed water in the back in some cases)

 & nbsp;

EDIT: As some commenters reminded me, I forgot to mention a second mechanism:

Due to the very flexible sealing on the door, just closing the lid with a little bit of force is sufficient to create a small vacuum. As you close the door, you compress the sealing slightly and therefore the overall volume inside the fridge gets smaller and some air is forced out. After that, the sealing expands again, the volume goes up, but no air can rush back in to fill this volume because now the door is completely closed. So again you have slightly lower pressure inside and the door is stuck. This is the same mechanism how these small suction cups for towels etc. work: you press, air goes out, can't come back in.

In my experience, this effect is usually too small to explain the whole phenomenon, but it helps to get an initial seal so that the cooling air can to its work properly. If you have a freezer with internal fans, the cooling effect is definitely the main culprit as the air is completely cooled down in seconds. They are stuck no matter how carefully you close the door.

 & nbsp;

EDIT 2:

What I didn't mention before: the force that holds the door shut if there is no pressure difference usually comes from the seals themselves. They often contain a magnetic strip to ensure a good seal to the frame. So yeah, magnets!

Kudos to /u/SouthwestFlyer for pointing it out
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: While the top comment is correct about the change in pressure, some newer fridges also have vacuums built in to make it a much stronger seal.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: It is because warm air will create a greater pressure than cold air when at a fixed volume. When you open the fridge the cold air inside is replaced with warmer air from outside the fridge. When the door is closed, all the cold items inside the fridge rapidly begin to cool this warm air in the fridge back to its original, cold temperature. This cooling of air creates a vacuum effect and makes the fridge difficult to open. This effect only last as long as it takes for the small leaks in the fridge to make up the difference in air pressure.

This effect is easy to see for yourself. Fill a water bottle with hot water. Then dump out all the how water and immediately close the lid on the bottle. Now, run cold water over the outside of the bottle. As the air inside the bottle cools, you will notice that the pressure will decrease. This results in a decrease in the volume of the  water bottle.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: When you open the door room temperature air enters the fridge.

When you close the door the air trapped inside is cooled, causing it to contract.

The contracting air creates a partial vacuum, which makes the door harder to open.

After some time air infiltration around the door gasket equalizes the pressure on either side of the door.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: We used to have an ice chest where I worked that would have this problem in summer.  One customer would open it, take their ice and the next guy wouldn't be able to open it.  I taught the young, petite woman that worked with us to pinch the magnetic seal around the door to let the pressure equalize so that she could easily open it... in front of the big, manly men that swore the door was broken.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: What about refrigerators that aren't plugged in? Like how there are situations of kids climbing into fridges and closing the door and not being able to open it from the inside?
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: You just compelled thousands of people around the planet to go to their kitchen and stand in front of the fridge, opening and closing the door, like crazy people. Well job!
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: Wow. This happens with one of the freezers in the lab. This whole time I thought I couldn't open the door immediately after shutting it because of a built in security/safety feature the freezer has by locking it for 10 s to prevent the freezer from accidentally opening up again. 

I'm a biologist, not an engineer.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: Most fridges have a small vacuum inside that turns on when you close the door. This makes sure the door is sealed tight and won't open, because that would cause all your food to rot. When you immediately try to open the door again, you're pulling against this vacuuming, which makes it much more difficult. The answer about the warmer air cooling is nonsense, that wouldn't happen so fast, and would actually make the door harder to open as time went on
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: My old rommate told me this. Newer refrigerators vaccum out some of the air and make it slightly negative after the door is shut. Less air to cool or something like that. You could hear a mild whistle sound for a few seconds after closing the door
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: When you open the fridge door that has been closed for a long time, the elephant inside has not been awakened yet so it is very easy to open. If you open it immediately after closing, the elephant is already awake the first time you open it so it is more difficult as it is holding the door from inside.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: Who else immediately ran to their kitchen to see if this is true or not?

I'm the only one?

:(
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: The force of closing the door creates a vacuum inside the fridge. It's easier to open the door later because the vacuum has had a chance to equalize through the seal.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: TIL opening a fridge door is harder "immediately after closing it compared to when it has been closed for sometime."
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: Yes there's air cooling. But also some high end refrigerators have vacuums and they suck all the air out once you close the door to keep the food fresh. After 10 seconds or so they turn off and the door can be opened with regular force.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: shutting door pushes air from under the door seal creating vacuum, and sucking door to the fridge.
Air gets sucked in through tiny holes and cracks under the door seal, pressure returns to norm no more vacuum, doors are easier to open again.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: I didn't even know this happened. How did I not notice this is a thing?

Also now I understand a scene in grace and frankie I didn't understand before.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: If the fridge has been closed for a long time, you are probably weak from hunger. This makes the door seem harder to open.
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: In all honesty I thought it was just me, and that I was going crazy... I'm very glad this post was well posted...
question: Why is it more difficult to open a fridge door immediately after closing it, compared to when it has been closed for some time? answer: Because subconsciously you know you shouldn't go back in the fridge after just taking out a load of food, you fatty.
question: Why do people walking on opposite sides of a corridor towards each other make eye contact, look down for ten feet, then look up at the last minute?[removed] answer: CORRIEARKLET (n.)The moment at which two people approaching from opposite ends of a long passageway, recognise each other and immediately pretend they haven't. This is to avoid the ghastly embarrassment of having to continue recognising each other the whole length of the corridor.

CORRIECRAVIE (n.)To avert the horrors of corrievorrie (q.v.) corriecravie is usually employed. This is the cowardly but highly skilled process by which both protagonists continue to approach while keeping up the pretence that they haven't noticed each other - by staring furiously at their feet, grimacing into a notebook, or studying the walls closely as if in a mood of deep irritation.

CORRIEDOO (n.)The crucial moment of false recognition in a long passageway encounter. Though both people are perfectly well aware that the other is approaching, they must eventually pretend sudden recognition. They now look up with a glassy smile, as if having spotted each other for the first time, (and are particularly delighted to have done so) shouting out 'Haaaaaallllloooo!' as if to say 'Good grief!! You!! Here!! Of all people! Will I never. Coo. Stap me vitals, etc.'

CORRIEMOILLIE (n.)The dreadful sinking sensation in a long passageway encounter when both protagonists immediately realise they have plumped for the corriedoo (q.v.) much too early as they are still a good thirty yards apart. They were embarrassed by the pretence of corriecravie (q.v.) and decided to make use of the corriedoo because they felt silly. This was a mistake as corrievorrie (q.v.) will make them seem far sillier.

CORRIEVORRIE (n.)Corridor etiquette demands that once a corriedoo (q.v.) has been declared, corrievorrie must be employed. Both protagonists must now embellish their approach with an embarrassing combination of waving, grinning, making idiot faces, doing pirate impressions, and waggling the head from side to side while holding the other person's eyes as the smile drips off their face, until with great relief, they pass each other.

CORRIEMUCHLOCH (n.)Word describing the kind of person who can make a complete mess of a simple job like walking down a corridor.

Douglas Adams - The Meaning of Liff
question: Why do people walking on opposite sides of a corridor towards each other make eye contact, look down for ten feet, then look up at the last minute?[removed] answer: Holding eye contact is one of two things. 

1) A sign of romantic interest.

2) A sign of aggression. 

Both are a very bad and rude thing to do with a stranger.
question: Why do people walking on opposite sides of a corridor towards each other make eye contact, look down for ten feet, then look up at the last minute?[removed] answer: Strangers don't want to make eye contact, but it's rude to not do so. The simple solution is to wait to the last second to minimize it.
question: Why do people walking on opposite sides of a corridor towards each other make eye contact, look down for ten feet, then look up at the last minute?[removed] answer: A professor of mine also noted that we do this even with friends. Holding eye contact that long is largely considered uncomfortable, no matter how well two people know each other.
question: Why do people walking on opposite sides of a corridor towards each other make eye contact, look down for ten feet, then look up at the last minute?[removed] answer: "Because he/she is a moving object and also alive. Our brain needs to calculate this movement and predict what his/her intention is. It is a instict."

This. If it were not a social setting, and we were still super primitive, the initial eye contact is to determine their intentions. Putting your head down would be a non-verbal communication that you are not a threat. Lifting your head as you pass is just a double check that your non-verbal communication has been received and you're not about to get jumped.
question: Why do people walking on opposite sides of a corridor towards each other make eye contact, look down for ten feet, then look up at the last minute?[removed] answer: Because he/she is a moving object and also alive. Our brain needs to calculate this movement and predict what his/her intention is. It is a instict.
question: Why do people walking on opposite sides of a corridor towards each other make eye contact, look down for ten feet, then look up at the last minute?[removed] answer: Just checking to see if the other guy is still staring. Ya know since staredowns can be a sign of aggression in animals. Edit: spelling
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: In geometry, regular polygons become closer to circles the more sides they have.  In that sense, you might say a circle is a regular polygon with an infinite number of sides.

Real world objects can be neither perfect circles or perfect regular polygons.  Eventually imperfections will crop up, at the molecular level, if not before.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: You can somewhat define an ellipse/circle as a polygon with infinite sides. If by small scale you mean molecular, then essentially yes. Current models of molecular geometry are supported by experimental data.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: In terms of what is practical to the user, it depends on what needs to be achieved. Requirements can be function, for example: a vector CAD package will increase the polygon side count based on the zoom to create the representation, otherwise it's really just a matter of how circular does it need to be and when does adding more faces diminish the addition's value.

In real terms: Arcs and circles are abstract concepts, they don't exist outwith theory and can only be defined functionally.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: * Youre in the realm of imagination when you think about questions like this, or in other words the realm where philosophy and maths exist.
* What a lot of people forget when asking this kind of question is that first and foremost what does the observer observe?  A normal person wouldnt see the difference between a polygon with 200 lines and a circle 1 meter away, depending on how small the circle is.
* but mathematicians believe in the perfect observer who can see infinite amount of lines.
* that means each length of a line in the polygon is nearing the length of a point, but as a point has no length, the number of lines are infinite, and our theoretical observer is fine with that.
* But with a boring normal human, you could figure out the radius of a point you can make with the pen youre using, and any 2 points that just barely touch could be called the smallest line possible.  Or you can depend on the crappy resolution of eyes and the ratio between the circle radius and the distance of the observer away from the circle to blur a polygon into a circle.
* Regarding the second part, geometry works outside of units, so scale is irrelevant.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: If we're dealing in perfect polygons(equilateral triangle,square,pentagon,etc) the angle of each corner is always the same. The most common measurement for angles is degrees(90 degree angle for square). Degrees can be split into 60 minutes, which in turn can be split into 60 seconds. This gives you 360 spaces within each degree angle. 360 times 360 equals 129,600, meaning the closest thing to a circle in this measurement system has 129,600 sides. You can technically split things up further, but as far as I have discovered, I do not know of any mathematical usage for such. If you use a different angle measurement system, like gradians, you can go further, but again I don't know what it would accomplish. For funsies, the Megagon is a million-sided polygon with an inside angle of 179.99964 degrees, or 199.999603411 gradians. So close to a circle that each side would have to be a football field long for you to notice the difference.

Edit: I took this a step further because I made myself curious. If the side of a perfect megagon was 100 yards long, and one side was flat on the ground, the far end of the next side would be 0.000628 yards, or two one-hundredths of an inch, off the ground. So a football field isn't even enough. Let's up the ante. If our megagon was 100 miles on one side flat on the ground, the far end of the next side would be 0.000628 miles, or approximately 3 feet 4 inches, off the ground.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: Polygons in euclidean space become more circly and boring as you increase the sides. There really isn't any "boundary" to when a many-sided polygon becomes a circle. But more sides on a polygon means it approaches being a circle. Step on over to hyperbolic space (constant negative curvature), a polygon with an infinite number of sides can actually be tiled and it isn't a circle. [Apeirogon](_URL_0_)
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: Geometry and the features of mathematics don't exist in physical form as described in math.   A point is a location with 0 diameter.   A line  has 0 width.a polygon has 0 height.     Physical manifestations in our world have all non zero dimensions.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: Mathematically, there is no upper limit to how many sides a polygon can have. A polygon is definied by the number of its sides, so the types of polygons are in one to one correspondence with the natural numbers, which is in infinite set with no maximum element. Of course, a polygon can NOT have infinite sides, so a circle can in some sense be thought of as a polygon with n sides taken as n goes to infinity.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: A circle has an infinite number of sides. 


Scale often doesnt matter that much with geometry. A square with side length n will *always* have an area of n  n, or n\^2. Just use smaller units or more zeros on the left.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: Sorry if this is a weird question but: Are neutrons and protons (maybe electrons?) perfectly spherical like they're shown to be in our diagrams or are they still somewhat like ellipsoids?
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: The pure answer is "an infinite number of sides".

But a useful answer depends of the needs of the inquirer.

Scientists call a "good enough" answer an answer that is plenty close for their present needs. Scientists call this kind of accuracy an answer "to a significant digit".

If you ask "How many candies can I get for five dollars?" "Plenty." Would be an answer, but not a very good one. "Several" would be a better answer, but not at all satisfying. "Almost four" is a pretty good answer. "3.8575" would be a very good answer, but too much information for your needs, probably. "4.0" would be the significant digit if you didn't want to break up the candies. If you needed them for a recipe or to try to figure out how many candies a balloon could float, you would want a more particular answer, or an answer to a more significant digit.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: There is no such number. An n-gon _approaches_ a circular geometry as n _approaches_ infinity but there is no defined number at which an n-gon suddenly becomes a circle- they are two conceptually different shapes and can not be equated. If youre talking about practical approximations, when graphing a circle on a computer, the number is relatively low. Even a 100-gon looks damn near a circle (but again, it is not truly a circle).

Yes, geometry exists on all scales which is evidenced by the fact that geometrical concepts are applicable with arbitrary variables. The values of those variables could be ~10^100 or ~10^-100 and the concepts work all the same.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: I don't know if anyone has answered the second question yet, but geometry *does* exist and very small scales. Just as an example, when water freezes (under normal pressure and temperature) because of the magnetic forces at a molecular level, the molecules arrange themselves to be 60 degrees apart from each other, thus creating the snowflake shapes we all know.

Crystalline structures of other materials also follow a similar principal and arrange themselves into geometric lattices.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: mathematically a regular polygon can have any finite number of sides and the rules of geometry stay the same. its properties like shape, area, circumference converge to that of a circle: they get closer and closer, but never reach it. just like 1/2 + 1/4 + 1/8 + 1/16 + ... approaches 1 but never reaches it.
question: How many sides can a shape have before it becomes a circle and does the concept of geometry exist on the very small scale?[removed] answer: Geometry most certainly exists on a small scale, as molecules themselves have characteristic geometric shapes based on the angles and types of bonds they contain
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: If it comes to ensuring the survival of the species then it still makes sense to prefer to save women, though of course some men need to survive too. A group with one woman and many men can produce at most one child every nine months. A group with one man and many women can increase in population much more quickly.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: That is basically a rule from like 2 events in like the 1910s and hasn't been any sort of law or anything ever.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: "Women and children first" is a shorthand approximation for the real rule which is that the strong should brave danger while trying to help those that are weaker. It is easy to see that men are generally (but not always) stronger than women and almost certainly stronger than the children. I would fault an able bodied woman who left a crippled man to die despite having the capacity to save him over a man who failed to save a woman who was able to save herself. 

Think if it like this, in a disaster everyone has a certain capacity for rescuing people including themselves. Those whose capacity is greater than one are expected to use it to help those whose is less than one. Men just tend (on average) to be more physically capable and thus have more rescue-surplus to share than women, and certainly more so than children.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: In a completely equal society, "those unable to help themselves first".
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: One of two outcomes: first, we all just look at each other and say "No really, you go first!"

The second possibility is that we are probably still classist and all the rich people go first.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Well it's WAS always children first, but you can't send them alone, so the natural caregiver was sent with them.

If you look at footage from Costa Concordia it's first come first serve.  Today, safety procedures prevent the need for choosing survivors.  If the procedures are followed and well executed.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Replace it with "Strong cares for the weak" because that's where it comes from, and generally society views women and kids as less physically strong than males (emphasis on "generally", don't you fuckers go smartass-replying with all the possible exceptions to these generalities, I know plenty exist, thanks).

Imagine you have to climb up a fence to get out of somewhere burning. As a fit male, you can do it yourself. Before hightailing it though, if there's a couple kids and a woman weaker than you around and you have time, you assist them out and then you leave. Same would apply if there was a guy next to you, just weaker or handicapped or something.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Doesn't seem complicated to me. Weakest first. Those who are strong enough to help rescue more people ought to do so regardless of their gender.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: The handful of cases of women and children first (Titanic and Birkenhead) are exceptions to the rule. **[Men were twice as likely to survive shipwrecks than women and the survival rates of children were as low as 15%.](_URL_2_)**

Not only is the idea that women and children were protected incorrect, but [women were often treated very poorly during maritime disasters](_URL_1_) and in some cases locked in their cabins to prevent them from "interfering in men's work".

Even [today women and children are much, much more likely to die in disasters than men](_URL_0_) (though there are a few very limited exceptions, such as men driving through floodwaters, associated with cultural expectations around male bravado). We are a very, very long way from reaching gender parity in disaster situations.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: There is no rule of saving women and children first. Not the helicopters out of Saigon, not sinking ships... it's a victorian myth from popular culture.

What usually happened back when ships sank back in the day, when there weren't enough life boats, was every man for himself. The people who survived were usually men. 

Victorians looked upon this situation with horror, because they preached this paternalistic bullshit about how women were basically children that needed taking care of, and children were innocents who needed taking care of.

Edit:

Here's a good example. During the evacuation of Vietnam, most of the evacuees, the people who swarmed aboard US ships and choppers, were men. 

_URL_3_
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Depends on who has the most followers on Tumblr.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: There are no feminists in a house fire. - Bill Burr
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: So far in practice, a gender equal society has mostly meant men and women are equal until women can gain more from the inequality.

I presume in this scenario a lot of women would find a sudden respect for the traditional rule.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: It's not a literal law but rather a cultural norm. Children first because they are the offspring we protect. Women second because biologically men are physically stronger than women and men have the natural urge of protecting females. I'm talking like in animal behaviour. Equality means fairness, but values like that are kind of inserted in our brains.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: All these answers are wrong.

No, it's not women and children first (but I think it's still children first).

It's a long time ago when it was "ladies before gentlemen", it was a far more patriarchal society where men assumed control of women. Women had far less personal autonomy than men.

In a survival situation it's the man who gets to make the decision not because of intellect but because he has the muscles to enforce his decision.

In reality however, throughout history there was probably most discrimination by class instead of gender and age. Poor kids drown, rich men survive.

It's nothing to do with saving reproductive abilities, it's down to how people behave when their lives are in danger.

But in a gender equal society, no gender should come before another, but men should also respect women and not use them or purposefully kill them by using their superior might -- that'd be an abuse of power.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: In desperate circumstances, it wouldn't matter if this is a "rule" or not. Think about it. How many people follow rules when they feel their survival is at stake? Almost no one. Not even on the Titanic; that's a popular myth though. Keep in mind that this rule doesn't even exist to this day on planes etc. Remember the instructions are that children are given oxygen masks first and every one else second. Have you ever seen flight safety information that instructs that women should have priority of oxygen masks in any way, shape or form? If you did then submit a lawsuit. But I'm sure you haven't in the real world. Hopefully, this myth will be put to rest at once and for all.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Children are especially vulnerable and women have historically been the main caregivers, and one could argue that they are legally, demographically still the main caregivers. Though to be technical you'd say like, 'children and people with children first'. I think because the female role used to be bound to children is why the phrase seems archaic.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Well, nowaday the standard is to safe families first! From experience it has been shown that this is a better approach than women and children first. Separating families turns often bad at the end.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: You shouldnt act on the assumption that we are living in a gender-equal society. Its a goal, not the reality.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Yes it does. In that situation most of them will suddenly not be feminists.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: We need a new rule "Smart people who progress the human race first"
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Why children first?  shouldn't we have an age equal society as well?
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Being saved first has a dollar an hour surcharge.

-Bill Burr
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: "Women and children first" end up not working out well at all in a lot of cases.  Women and children will sometimes/often refuse to be rescued without their husband/father and fewer total people end up saved than if family groups were saved as a group instead of being split up.
One source: _URL_4_
...but it has happened other times as well.  I've seen it in person (although with much less high-stakes outcomes, obviously).
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Women and children first is not a question about gender, but of sex.  Women can make children, which are the continuation of the species.  So from a survival standpoint, you wanna protect the women and children before the men.  One man can theoretically bang 10 women and have 10 children in a relatively small window of time.  One woman cannot do the same.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: People have minds that evolved to feel that women should be protected. To say that this is to protect the species is to get evolution backwards. 

No one will ever be able to successfully argue us all out of this deep, prehistoric, biological imperative.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: No one knows how gender equal society will actually look like. But if you imagine all the people have the same gender, that will probably be a good approximation of what will happen. Children and whoever comes next.
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: Women, children, it don't matter. If shit hits the fan I'm clothes-lining them and taking their title
question: In a gender-equal society, does the rule of saving women and children first still apply, or just children and whoever comes next in line? answer: The rule shouldn't apply anymore in western societes because women were actaully useful 100 years ago
question: Why do microwaves cook the stuff on the outside of the plate more completely while the stuff in the middle remains cold? answer: The microwaves penetrate the outside more than the denser core.

Life pro tip. It will hear more evenly if you make a ring of food instead of a pile
question: Why do microwaves cook the stuff on the outside of the plate more completely while the stuff in the middle remains cold? answer: The type of the radiation used is only capable of penetrating "skin deep." The rest of the object is cooked by that heat (absorbing outside inward). This causes the outside to be "extremely hot" and the inside to be "less hot." The thicker the item, the less heat that can be absorbed (inward).
question: Why do microwaves cook the stuff on the outside of the plate more completely while the stuff in the middle remains cold? answer: Microwaves don't heat things evenly in their boxes, thats why they rotate. The outside edge will pass through zones that cook better while the middle might stay in an area with less radiation hitting it and since the middle portion doesn't move throughout the microwave
question: Why don't more species have high intelligence, like humans, when the advantages are so significant? answer: The advantages arent very significant from an evolutionary standpoint.. Ants are just as successful as humans. They are still living and thriving, and in greater numbers than us. You can argue alligators and sharks are more successful than humans. They've been on this planet way longer than us.
question: Why don't more species have high intelligence, like humans, when the advantages are so significant? answer: Are the advantages so significant? Perhaps for a short span but once an intelligent civilization reaches class II it will be handling energies vast enough to potentially erase its own existence in entirety. Its one of those traits that is aggressive and normally unsustainable, like high virulence of a pathogen coupled with rapid mortality. It works exponentially well for a brief period, and then it's own efficiency becomes its downfall. 

Not to mention that nature is a fractal with dynamic variable change, it tries whatever works, and if something works, it flows with that and continues that set until it again changes, diverges, or reaches a dead end. High intelligence may be improbable compared to other biological survival tools, only occurring in relatively long living endurance animals in certain climatological grace periods. There is no reason to believe that high intelligence could not evolve independently once again, or elsewhere. That much however, is to be determined. Data is insufficent
question: Why don't more species have high intelligence, like humans, when the advantages are so significant? answer: Your brain burns up ust about 20% of your total energy. One-fifth of the food you eat, becomes nothing more significant than abstract electrical signals running around inside your skull.

Imagine being able to be 20% faster, or 20% stronger, or 20% more fertile. Those are the things we had to give up, in order to have a brain as big as ours. Evolution doesn't give up those things lightly or easily. Our brain had to be *really* overpowered to become an actual evolutionary advantage vs. other things.

Evolution just hasn't had a chance to do it in any other species. Frankly, it was probably a freak accident in our case. One of those random crazy mutations that in most cases cripple the individual that has them, but in our case it happened at the right time and right place to be a helpful mutation.
question: Why don't more species have high intelligence, like humans, when the advantages are so significant? answer: Intelligence takes a large brain relative to body size. Large brains require a very large amount of energy. That is energy that is not being used for things like strength or reproduction. Intelligence is not necessary for survival.
question: Why don't more species have high intelligence, like humans, when the advantages are so significant? answer: i think we were a mistake. we accidentally became too smart, too smart for our own good.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: If you pay people to donate blood, you encourage people to give blood more frequently than they should, lie on their donation forms and perhaps even use aliases to give excessive amounts of blood in the short term.

You are also encouraging people to give blood that ordinarily wouldn't - maybe it's not safe for them to currently do so but they need the money. This is often the reason some scientific experiments with potential side effects or harm to participants are purely voluntary and not paid.

Edit: Here is some research FOR paid donations and counters the research behind the points I raised, just for the other side of the story: _URL_0_
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: The beginning of the book Freakonomics discusses this in a fair amount of detail, you should read it if you're interested. The short answer is that they've tried it (though I'm not sure if the dollar amount was so high), and it actually led to decreased blood donations. People donate blood to feel altruistic, and turning it into a painful way to make money made those people want to give less. There's also concerns it will give people who shouldn't donate a reason to lie about their eligibility
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There's a really interesting episode of Radiolab that touches on this topic. I believe it's the third segment of this one:

_URL_1_
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: It's illegal to traffic in viable human body parts. They don't actually charge for the blood, they charge for related services. Some places do buy blood , but they tend to do things like sell it to dopers or send it overseas to countries where donating is a religious or cultural taboo. Broadly, there is a blood shortage because people are either ignorant, apathetic, or both.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: This is a modern debate in the law: do you own your own body?  If so, can you sell your kidney?  If not, why not?  

If yes, can you sell yourself into slavery? (say, have the money go to your mother who needs an expensive treatment).  

If not, do you own the produce of your labor? If yes, what is the difference?  

I could write hundreds of pages on the above questions alone.  It is relevant to your question because we presently cannot pay people to donate parts of their bodies.  

----

The other part of your question is, why is there a shortage?  

The shortage isn't in the supply, it is in the distribution, storage, and allocation.  It costs a great deal of money to move, store, and efficiently allocate these products.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: As the wife of the OP of this ELI5, we had to reschedule our blood tests for marriage license due to his fear of needles. The only way he would willingly be stuck with needles is money or someone he loves dies.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I believe that blood doesn't have a very long shelf life, so it's hard to transport and store.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I'm a little late to the party, but oh well:

Like previously said, you don't want to encourage people to donate when they shouldn't. As in:

* they're sick, running a fever, etc.
* they just donated a week ago, not giving their body enough time to regenerate the lost red blood cells
* they are unsure of their status, as in hepatitis, HIV, etc, or have exposed themselves to this since their last donation and might omit this information
* for women, they might be pregnant in the time between the last donation and this one

As for the hospital/blood center customer itself:

**Yes, they may charge $800/unit to the patient, but this is NOT the cost that the hospital pays to the blood center.** The markup is due to the pre-transfusion testing that the hospital performs. It's not just ordered by the hospital and passed directly to the patient - further testing is performed to ensure compatibility to the recipient. It's a huge liability to give blood to a patient without prior testing and is heavily discouraged unless it's an emergency situation. My hospital paid around $225 for a regular unit without special requests (CMV status, irradiated, etc). That $225 pays for the person before collection to screen patients, the person to collect the blood, the time to collect the blood, the products used to collect the blood, and the post-collection testing (HIV, hepatitis, etc). Also... a lot of blood just doesn't get used before it expires. It's just the nature of the beast. We do our best to limit this, but a large hospital will still expire 2-3 units on a 'good' day. The hospital ends up eating a lot of the extra cost.

Source: I worked in a level-one trauma center blood bank for five years. I've seen it all.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: 3 letters. FDA. It became donor only after HIV/AIDS became prevalent.  And just to comment on the the free donation and 800 dollar per unit disparity..... Overhead. Blood collection supplies, testing, wages, hundreds of vehicles, property leases and mortgages add up. Just looked at the 2012 overview at the blood bank I work at recently (on website) 36 million in sales. 35 million in overhead.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Guess I am late to this party but it is the area of my expertise.

There is no over-arching, on-going national blood shortage.  Blood usage for non-trauma purposes and the total number of units of blood being collected is falling nation wide.  Orthopedic surgery in particular has gone from 6-7 units of blood to rarely needing any for lots of common procedures over the past 20 years.  The Red Cross has actually been shutting down blood banks and consolidating.  Of course lower total usage means lower standing inventory levels means less ability to absorb spikes.  Harder forecasting, apparent shortages.

Shelf life and storage capacity are both quite low, making regional inventory levels vulnerable.  A bag of blood is legal for 35 to 42 days depending on what they mix in it, but it's not like it's new and shiny until midnight on the 35th day and then turns green.  In reality doctors know it's badly degrading after two weeks or so.  Blood that is getting older will preferably only be used in emergencies when nothing else compatible is found.

Lots of blood gets thrown out.  It expires.  It goes out of temperature range during transport.  The container is compromised.  Or it's ordered and never used.  (Once it's out of the controlled environment of the hospital blood bank and sitting on a cart in the ER for hours they're not allowed to just take it back and toss it in the fridge for someone else, it is trash.)  So the cost of one is also covering the cost of the lost overhead expense on unused units.  (Affects what it would be reasonable to be able to pay per-donation.  I don't work on the hospital side, don't know a firm number of what % collected units go unused nationally.)

For donors who are compensated in the US (that is, plasma) the protocols are more stringent, there is a lot of extra work the clinic is required to do to make sure you're a legitimate donor.  Blood Banks aren't set up for this, it's more work, more staff.  Some of the rules used to make compensated plasma donations acceptable just don't really translate onto blood banking.  Imagine the task and cost of developing a protocol to assert a compensated donation is safe for use and getting it past the US FDA...!
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: As an English man I cannot get my head around the whole concept of being charged or paid for blood.

I would have been no less suprised if the topic would have been about the cost of breathing air when out walking in the park.

It took me at least 3 or 4 post to realise it was a USA issue.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I don't want to start the whole US healthcare circlejerk, but a unit of blood is around 125 GBP in the UK ($208 USD).  [Source](_URL_2_)

In the US, the cost to a hospital of acquiring the blood is almost exactly the same, on average: $210 USD.  [Source](_URL_3_).

The ~$600 dollars difference between the cost price and the sale price is  presumably profit for the hospital and/or insurance company.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I've been battling aplastic immunity for three years or so. A rare form of cancer that does not allow my bone marrow to produce healthy blood. I have received dozens of plasma  &  blood transfusions. All I have to say is that donations DO save lives  &  thank you to all that donated, no matter what the motivation was that brought you to donate.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I work in a blood bank at a hospital so I have a pretty close working relationship to this. The reason that each unit of blood costs that much is because of all the different testing that is done on it from the time it leaves the donors arm until it gets transfused. 

It first needs to checked for infectious diseases, typed, analyses that its counts are high enough, and so on. When it gets to the hospital, it needs to be crossmathched against the patients blood, which has already had a few different tests done to determine type and to see if the receiving patient has unexpected antibodies. If all tests are okay, only then can blood be transfused.

All the tests are described are highly regulated by certifying bodies, such as the American Association of Blood Banking, Federal Drug Administration, and usually College of American Pathologists. Each of these governing bodies require a wide variety of quality assurance, documentation of every step of the process, continuous education of the testing employees, and inspections every 18 months to name a few. 

Third expense is all the people that are involved in the process and their paychecks. From the phlebotomist at the donation site, to the medical technologists (all with either an associate degree or a bachelor's degree) at both the blood center and the hospital, administrators at the blood center ranging from quality assurance managers to personal managers to marketing people to human resources. 

Fourth is all the equipment that is needed. Highly precise instruments that separate RBCs, plasma, and platelets aren't cheap. Neither are the irradiators that are needed for immunosuppressed patients. Or the fleet of buses that each blood center has so they can have "mobile donation centers" that travel to churches, hospitals, schools/colleges, and local businesses. 

In conclusion, paying you for your donation would only further increase the cost of each unit of blood. All the expenses stated above are not going away. 

Tl;dr - Patients don't get charged for the product. They pay for all the things that happen to the unit between donation and transfusion!
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: It's because they tried it in the past and it didn't work. What happens is you get predatory blood banks who will buy blood from alcoholics/homeless/unemployed and then sell it to the hospitals. What happens next is you have liquor stores set up next to the blood banks in symbiotic relationships. There is a radiolab episode on it called Blood.


Blood is actually a good profitable business for blood banks and it spoils quickly making it a good product to sell for repeat business. It's often not in shortage overall, though it may be in shortage in your local city. It's really your local hospitals shortage as it hasn't had many blood donors. They could of course buy more blood in but at $800 a unit or whatever it it is, most hospitals would rather have it donated. And should, we all should be giving it away anyway, but it did used to pay donors however, as always greed got in the way of a good system.

Source: listened to radiolab and repeated what I heard like I'm an expert.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I would donate blood, but I'm gay, so I must have AIDS.

Thanks, American Red Cross (and the FDA)!
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: This post just made me book in to my first blood donation. Cheers.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: This isn't the whole answer, but it's important to remember that there are different blood types.  Not every person can receive blood from every other person and not every donor can donate to every other person.  Some can, and they're called universal donors.  Their blood is rare and highly sought after.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Maybe it should be a one for one. You can receive as many units of blood as you have donated up until that point free. Then you have to pay for more after that. This way, there is a real incentive to give to build up this credit.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I feel like if you at least donate blood regularly, then you shouldn't have to pay $800 should you need a transfusion.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I used to work for a plasma 'donation' center during college. I started off working on the donor floor as a phlebotomist (the guy that stuck the big scary needle in your arm), then as a lab technician. We paid our 'donors' up to $35 per bottle. I use the apostrophes around the word 'donor', because they were not donors in the true sense of the word. They were there to collect money in a slow, painful manner. By paying our 'donors', we had to weed out liars, and there were many of them. For every 10 people that would enter the building and sign in at the front desk, maybe 4 or 5 would make it back to the donor room, but, believe me, there was no shortage of work to be done in the donor room. There would be people walking in who would fill their pockets with rocks, just so they could be bumped up to the next weight bracket, so they could give more plasma, and thus be paid more. There were countless people we had to reject after their first donation because they would test positive for HIV/AIDS or some other disqualifying disease. They would come back to the center multiple times, insisting that they were not sick, and that they should be able to donate. There were multiple times where the police had to be called to escort these people out of the center, or where they would threaten to harm (or, on at least one occasion, contaminate employees with their tainted blood). In the three years I worked at this center, there was rarely ever a day that went by where a 'donor' wasn't in your face about how long they had to wait to get into the donor room, and how they preferred the needle be inserted into their massive scar tissue port.

I donate blood to the Red Cross on a regular basis, and have since I turned 18 (I'm 25 now). I've just surpassed the 3 Gallon mark, which means I'm pretty much a regular at my local donation center. I never feel threatened or packed in with a crowd of...'interesting' people when I'm at my donation center. I never feel the need to lie about my eligibility requirements, because I receive no incentive for doing so. The only tangible reward I receive for my time is a bottle of water and a small snack to help restore my blood sugar. The employees at the donation center are always kind, willing to answer any questions that I might have, and take great care of me throughout the donation process. Compare this to the 16+ donors that I, as the phlebotomist at the plasma center, had to set up, stick, document, and disconnect, with maybe only one other person to help me, who usually spent their time staring at the TVs, or restocking supplies. 

I don't care if my wallet weighs the same coming out of the Red Cross as it did when I went in, it's a great feeling to donate blood, knowing that I have saved quite a few lives in the process.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Can they test blood to see if its usable? I mean do they have to test for everything individually or is there a general series of tests they can do? 

why not charge $50 to give blood, and when the test comes back that it's good the you get $250. If it comes back full of THC or anything else that disqualifies it you loose the $50.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: They charge $800?! 

This makes me very, very, very glad to live in the UK and not be charged a penny for healthcare when I need it.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Donate blood!  People die if you don't!  Many thanks to the 7 people that donated blood that has kept me alive the last six weeks!
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: South Korean govn't solved blood shortage by making conscripted soldiers donate their blood.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: is now a good time to bring up the thing where [you can't donate blood if you're a dude who sleeps with dudes](_URL_4_)?

like, you don't even have to be 'gold star gay' to be excluded - you can sleep your way through a hundred women, but if you fool around with one guy, boom, disqualified. your blood is tainted.

hey also guess what else - all those women you slept with? they're disqualified for *a year* just as a result for being exposed to you and your filfthy man-loving ways.

it's pretty fucked up. that rule is basically why I don't think blood donation is any kind of big deal. if the need is as dire as people make it out to be, they couldn't afford to be so discriminating.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Because I lived in western europe (Belgium) for more than 6 months in the early 90s, I'm not allowed to donate blood where I live in Canada. Which is a shame, because I would definitely do so. I have asked on two or different occasions but they however they have not changed these criteria. I believe it had something to do with mad cow beef coming out of the UK around that time if that makes any sense? Feel free to enlighten me if I am wrong.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I'm from the uk and we give away our blood for free, seems to work well enough. I give blood every year or so, i figure one day all need someone else's.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: The real question is why don't hospitals charge less for blood units?  I would be interested to know how that cost is appropriated.

edit: I guess U/leftnuttriedtokillme answered this
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Payment should be in form of a Kind. People who donate blood receive free blood when needed.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Radiolab did a great job covering this issue. Here's a link with some further reading/listening: _URL_5_
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I'm only commenting here because I feel that I have something that could add some insight into this. I use to work at a blood bank and processed blood that people donate. Sometimes I like to tell people that I have held a bag of AIDs infected blood before, but that's another story. ;)

So donors would be asked a series of questions and although the donors could lie, most did not. A few people do lie about it and because every donation of blood had to be tested for various diseases, some use it as an STD test or something like that. Some donors had to give blood because they were ordered by their doctors to do so. These units of blood had to be thrown out because there was something wrong with it.

I worked in the back of the lab and processed the blood that the company collected. Reading some of the comments on here I'm not sure that people realize how much work goes into the processing and testing of the donors blood.

So there were a few different types of bags used to collect blood depending on what we wanted to do with it. The simplest type was a double bag system like this one _URL_6_ and we would start to process it by putting each bag into a plastic cup, weigh it out for putting them into a centrifuge. The process would separate the red blood cells from the plasma.

This is where the second bag would come in at. Once the blood and plasma were separated you would drain the plasma out and into the other bag. The device that did this was a device where you would put the blood bag into and would squeeze it into the other. Once you got all the plasma into the 2nd bag, you would seal it and break them apart.

Now let me take a moment to explain something. There were times when just based on the plasma you were able to figure out someone's gender (the plasma was green due to some birth controls) and you could always tell if the person as obese. The plasma looked like milk shake mix. The reason for bringing this up is that these were set off to the side. Unless the plasma was usable, ie able to be sold to a hospital, it would be put off to the side. It was not thrown away, but was instead sold to overseas companies for an insane amount of money. These bags would be weighed and the weight written on them and frozen. Once a week a truck would come and pick up a pallet of the stuff.

We also processed other donations another way, but the bag used was a three bag system similar to _URL_7_ and was processed the same way. However once the plasma was extracted, you would spin the other two bags again. You would then squeeze out the plasma and what was left were platelets. We processed a lot of these units because platelets have a short time frame and after that you had to throw them away.

So you have the potential to have 2 or more products off one donation. There are a few other products you can make from just one donation. That is all that we did for those. For the red blood cells, we had to process them further using a process called Leukoreduction ( _URL_8_ ) which in a nut shell, remove the white blood cells. You can do around 70 to 100 units an 8 hour shift.

On top of all this processing, you have people that are attaching the blood type stickers. You would also get doctors and nurses that would order a specific type of blood Rh which if that happened, one of the higher paid doctors would just randomly grab a blood bag and run a few tests that could take a few hours. If it didn't meet the requirements, another random bag was picked to run tests on.

You also need to keep in mind that this stuff was not held at the hospital and the doctors ordered on a need by need basis so we used our own system of drivers and some different curriers.

Please keep in mind that the job I did was not that technical and is a job that has no real requirements. In my book it was a slight step up from fast food. I hope this helps and can put some of this into perspective.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I can somewhat answer why hospital blood costs so much as my dad is the manager of the blood bank within a hospital.

First, blood goes "bad" very quickly, and if it isn't in a properly cooled container for over 30 minutes, it is usually disposed of since there is a chance of bacteria growing. There are quite a few instances where blood is quickly used up. For instance, if a John Doe comes in with extreme trauma requiring blood and there's no time to type him or look up his medical file, he gets the universal donor blood type, and will probably need lots of it. If a surgeon orders too many units of blood down to the OR, they can be contaminated if handled and have to be tossed. Another problem experienced in hospitals is doctors ordering blood for patient's with a low hemoglobin that don't necessarily need blood, especially if they have already been given blood previously. The issue is the doctor not waiting for the hemoglobin to slowly return to normal levels, and will order blood to get back within normal limits.

Then there's outside costs involved in donating blood. All the medical staff at donation centers are getting paid, there's overhead on the building(rent/utilities), and the blood also needs to be screened for blood borne diseases such as hepatitis before it can be safely administered to a patient. 

After all of that screening, the blood needs to be inventoried in the hospital's blood bank by staff where there's overhead on the building, cost of employees, and the cost to have and maintain equipment.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Addressing the hospital charge: There are many costs associated with giving a unit of blood that account for that $800 including the bag and tubing it comes in, the phlebotomist that performs the donation procedure and the facility where this happens, the equipment used to store and climate control the blood, the blood bank that physically stores the blood and the transportation cost to get it there, the cost of the laboratory tests to check the blood for infectious pathogens and the cost of the type and crossmatch to make sure it is compatible with the recipient, the cost of processing the blood into the separate components of plasma, packed red cells, and cryoprecipitate since we never transfuse whole blood anymore, the salary of the nurse or anesthesiologist that administers the transfusion (the doctor ordering blood gets paid for his services separately from the $800 you mention), the cost of giving intravenous fluids that must be administered with the blood.  Not to mention most hospitals must extract profit for everything or at least net profit on some things.  To compensate donors more, hospitals would need to charge more.

All of that aside, we don't want to pay blood donors because it would encourage some people to donate more often than is recommended and because many people would donate just to get money for drugs, making the donated blood less safe.  That is why frequently donors are compensated with less currency convertible items such as movie tickets.  In short, you get more favorable donors and more of them when it is a charitable donation.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: One: As many people on this post have said. Charging for blood donations attracts the wrong kind of people. People with drugs in their system, contagions and other nasty things that can be transmitted via blood contact. This would create a massive stock of unusable blood which would have to be disposed of in a sanitary way (not cheap). Plus the syringe, blood bag, tubing, etc. is completely wasted, again not cheap. This would be more detrimental to the health care industry then a shortage of blood. Which will continue to exist as long as doctors are saving live no matter the cost.

Two: There will always be shortages as a single patient can go through the entire blood reserve just to keep them alive. I asked my father if the hospital had ever ran out of blood. My father being an internal medical doctor who specializes in respirology and intensive care. His response was yes. In fact he practically used up the entire hospitals blood supply attempting to keep a car accident patient alive. You see if a doctor has the ability to save someone he is legally obligated to. It doesn't matter if the local blood supply will run out. They will bleed it dry if necessary. This leads to one of the reasons why euthanasia is a difficult idea for some doctors as it goes against every fibber in their being. Even if it does cease an otherwise excruciating death.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There's some good reasons listed already but an additional one is the Red Cross. Despite what they save, it's the life blood of the organization. They turn blood into money and use that to pay for their overhead. It makes it look like they spend a greater percentage on charitable works than they do since your blood isn't a monetary donation. Since they run their organization with blood money they can spend most of their donated dollars on charity and make it look like they only spend 10% on overhead. 

It's a huge organization that has lots of money and all the blood. They spend millions a year on lobbying.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Many people do not realize the costs that go into blood donation. You have to pay for the skilled workers to collect the blood, the equipment to collect the blood, the transportation costs, the sterilization costs, the paperwork, the management, and the storage of the blood. Blood does not have a long shelf life so many of the areas with shortages are localized areas. On a national scale, there is a surplus of blood that goes wasted, but it is better to have a surplus than a shortage. 
TL:DR A hospital's cost factors in many costs associated with blood collection and distribution. You are also paying for the waste.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Anecdotal for sure, but with the knowledge that my blood is being sold to patients I stopped donating to red cross altogether a few years ago. I'd donate the blood for free of they weren't using it to cover their overhead, but I don't find it ethical to charge patients for something people give to you freely. Now I just donate to any friends or relatives who are expecting to have surgery soon. If anyone is in the northeast is having surgery soon and wants some awesome O- blood with good  O2 and clotting factors, PM me.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I'm not American, but that price seems high. [This](_URL_9_) seems to indicate significantly cheaper costs to patients.
If you look at the cost breakdown for a unit of blood product, banking, testing, separating, and acquiring blood is not cheap and makes up a significant portion of the cost. 
Also remember that just because "everyone" would want to donate doesn't imply those people would be of the needed type, disease free, and able to donate safely.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There is an NPR interview with one of the people from red cross or whatever that takes blood donations.. Look it up and listen to it. They make big time profits of the blood you donate by selling it to hospitals across the country, and they sell it to other hospitals, and then to others... Its like a big money train and every stops gets more expensive
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Here in Egypt. Hospitals require a ratio of blood to blood donation. So if you're a A+ or B+ it's 1:1 of any type. If you need something rarer it can go as high as 8:1 (you need to donate 8 units to get 1 unit) so people gather their friends and family members to help.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There's more than just "Fuck you, that's why" tied up in that price. You can't just shove blood in a fridge and call it a day. The blood has to be handled properly, properly labeled, and kept at very specific conditions. It's actually harder than people think.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I make a decent enough living, but $250 every couple weeks or so would get me to donate blood. I could use it to pay extra on my student loans, which seems a bit ironic since they already got so much blood, sweat and tears from me.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Red Cross Volunteer here. The biggest reason blood banks don't pay for blood anymore is because it increase the chances people will lie on the health history, and in turn, increase the chances that there will be more blood-borne pathogens(HIV, Malaria, etc.) in the national blood supply.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Paying a huge amount like $250 might also lead to a moral hazard. People who desperately need the money but don't have a healthy lifestyle may contribute and therefore, the cost of checking/running tests may be greater than the benefit. Just a theory.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: In a study done by Steven Levitt (author of Freakonomics) it was shown that when people were paid to donate blood, it resulted in less donors because the moral incentive to donate blood was reduced because they were getting paid.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: i would love to donate blood... unfortunately i cant because of my sexuality and can guarantee i am more careful than most straight people. i have only had two sexual partners, worn protection and STILL gone for a check.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I work in a hospital and not sure if anyone said this but, blood only last so long a week or two and they throw it out quite frequently. Also vampires break in and drink it.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: blood and kidneys should be able to be sold to hospitals for cash. 

the only reason its not is because losers cry over who is getting it and are afraid the rich will of course.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: If they pay for blood, health officials would be scared of adverse selection. By offering money you may invite those who aren't in the best of health to donate purely for the money.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: That's a good question. My father works in this area as well, I know the companies make boat loads of cash selling the blood to hospitals, whilst getting it for almost nothing.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Most countries pay nothing because giving blood is a donation, not a sale. Then again, most countries wouldn't allow hospitals to make a profit from saving lives.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Going to go with the assumption that it costs money to store the blood, extract it, insurance in case of malpractice, staff salaries, etc.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: What if patients at hospitals that give blood donations, receive a discount on their medical bills. Seems like a fair trade.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: What freakin country do you live in where hospitals charge you when you need a blood transfusion????
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: My blood is worth that much? Now I don't feel guilty when I take two snacks.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Not russians, nor aliens, neither global warming. Your own healthcare system will destroy United States.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Radiolab did a great episode about the blood industry _URL_10_
Give it a listen!
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: You PAY for getting blood? I keep getting chocked by these things...
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: What do I have to do to donate blood right now.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I'd give blood if I actually weighed enough
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I can provide a really interesting thought/answer from a statistical viewpoint.  An example, I have been studying the ELISA blood test for HIV.  This test was designed so that the false negative rate (IE the chance that the test would tell you that you do not have HIV when you really do to be around 1/10000). Now stay with me, here is where it gets really interesting. 

for the sake of the problem we assume 1/10000 people actually has the  HIV virus ( a probability of .01 which is reasonable).  The sensitivity of the test is 99% (seems good right?) and the specificity is 98% (also seems passable) so you would expect probability that a person having HIV given the test says they have HIV to be high.  However this is false.  **The chance of having HIV given you tested positive for HIV is below 50%**, meaning over half of the people who tested positive will not carry the virus.  But who designs a test like that? 

Well it all comes back to decision theory, we have to consider what happens in two cases.  First, what happens if the test says a person has HIV when they really do not?  and second, what happens when the tests says a person does not have HIV and they really do.  

Finally we can apply the above thought to blood banks.  **If a person receives a transfusion from HIV positive blood they will get HIV.**  Therefore blood banks have requested that the test have an extremely low false negative rate, as a consequence the false positive rate grows very large. **The end result is that blood banks throw away 1/2 to 2/3 of the blood that is clean because it tested positive, all to ensure that nobody gets HIV from a contaminated transfusion.**  


Thanks for reading, I will go into the Bayesian calculations if requested but its super dense.  

**TL,DR Statistical analysis of the blood for contamination forces blood banks to throw away a large portion of incoming stock**
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Biologics (replacement enzymes, proteins  > 100-mer, antibodies, etc) are a pain in the ass to make and are held to very high quality standards - refining blood is likely annoying as shit (just guessing based other biologic mfc protocols).

They don't just take the stuff out of you an put it back into someone else. They filter it, either w/ actual filters or a centrifuge and add in some preservatives/stabilizers.

So basically, you have a situation where you need to create a highly pure product that complies with expensive, though not highly technical standards.From a business perspective, it becomes a matter of scale. 

I look at this situation and I see a commonly used product that probably does a lot of volume, that requires strict standards of manufacturing, with no real way to block competitors out. The only way to clip a legit margin is to scale up production. I'd prob have to throw down $20mm to start up a factory (very low ball estimate) to clip $5mm (generous estimate) w/ 15% net margins (fair)? That's 750k per annum in my pocket. I would be paying 26x NI for some shitty product that is EXACTLY the same as every other blood substitute. I'd have to wait 26 YEARS to make my money back.  

The only way to differentiate my product is price. The only way to lower my price is to funnel cash into this money pit of a business and get some economies of scale going. If i even thought about trying to push my top line (revenue), i'd have to hire a sales team and that just eats at my net income. 

Basically, blood product manufacturing is a shit business as it is. No commercial incentive to fill these gaps in supply. Your suggestion would make it more expensive at both the company and patient level. Why are you trying to kill these patients?**

**obligatory pharma guilt trip 

Source- biotech/pharma finance guy
edit - math
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: The truth is they probably would, but its against the law because we have this strange taboo against the selling of parts of the body.

People usually justify this law on a "wont somebody think of the poor people!" argument, but IMHO, it sucks because just blanket assuming that people who think they really "need" the money is wrong because they're stupid poor people, is in my opinion, incredibly stupid. 

If a person is willing to buy blood and another is willing to sell, there is no good moral reason to stop the practice. Hell, you could even put limits on selling if you wanted to protect health. 

Its also why you need proof of address when "donating" plasma. The homeless clearly would just donate so they could get money for like, homes (rent) and stuff. Wouldn't want them to exploited in such a way /sarcasm.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Kinda related factoid for Brits:
I used to work for the NHS Blood and Transplant service. In the UK blood donations are mostly unpaid and completely voluntary. Consequently only about 3% of British people donate regularly. This creates a massive shortfall in blood and plasma available for treatment. We actually have to import blood donations from the US and France to make up the shortfall. This costs us about 100 per unit (more for infant-suitable donations).
If you are a Brit and you have ever considered donation, I would urge you to do it! Grab a friend or partner and get down to your local NHS donation centre! This is especially important if you have a rare blood type or are from an ethnic minority (blood donations are used to make all sorts of bio-products and variation matters!).
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: If they paid $250, they'd have to charge $2500.  It is the U.S. healthcare system, after all.

That covers all of the administrative and healthcare costs, as well as this...

I went to the emergency room one day, and my bill was about $1200 (my out-of-pocket share).  Then I noticed that my health insurance info was wrong, and that the hospital has charged them too much, as my insurance didn't cover a couple of the procedures.  I mentioned that my health insurance info was wrong.  The clerk looked and said, "Oh, I'm sorry, that is incorrect."

When she handed me back the bill, it was $750.  "We forgot to reduce the charges because your health insurance doesn't cover those things, then we give you a further price reduction because of the lack of comprehensive health insurance coverage."

Subsidies.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Paying people to donate would make the blood less safe because there would be an incentive for donors to lie about risk factors (like IV drug use or travel to Africa). We test for many infections (like HIV and hepatitis) but there's a potential for these tests to not work in certain situations. Also, several infections (like mad cow disease and babesiosis) just don't have any good screening tests  asking questions like "How long did you live in Europe" is the best we can do. Paying donors would result in more blood being thrown out, and potentially some unsafe blood being given to patients. Also, many donors keep donating because they feel good about helping others as volunteers; paying people to donate would make these awesome (and low disease risk) volunteers less likely to return.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: This used to be the case. It made it more likely for drug users and prostitutes to give blood.

They are more likely to have HIV. since the current ELISA HIV test only tests for HIV antibodies, somebody who has just recently(within past 6 weeks) contracted HIV will not have antibodies and thus not test positive for it.

This would increase the chance for a person (particularly haemophiliacs, who need factor 6/9, which is made from many samples of blood pooled together) to receive HIV from a blood transfusion(It is currently really really low).

Whether it would increase the chance enough to make up for the benefit of more blood  is an experimental variable. But that is why they don't pay for blood anymore.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: If your interested, and have half an hour, listen to the radiolab podcast "blood." It's got a section about the blood business. It is, by the way, a business. Basically, they buy/sell blood with jacked up prices and do their best to get it to areas who need it. Some places have high demand with low donations, so they buy. Others are the opposite. 

Also, here's an interesting thing. When people donate blood, they feel they've fulfilled their civic duty and don't donate for a while. That means a while after a crisis, like the Boston bombing, (where they got TOO much blood), there can be a shortage. So it's more complex than it seems.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: People will come up with all sorts of inane and solve-able roadblocks to sensible ideas. When nothing is physically stopping humans from doing something, it is only words and rules that do. We are the masters of words and can do anything we want with them. And the most powerful people DO whatever they want. And the rules stopping sensible and progressive solutions to most societal problems are a result of what (the big) they want. 

Anything that makes it easier to live with less money, or easier to make money, destroys a lot of profit along the line, and nobody with any financially strewn power wants that.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I think apathetic individuals, like myself, don't donate blood. My reason is the blood center calls ne every single day at like 8-9 am. I blocked them, but every time they call and their call gets blocked, i hear my phone vibrating. It is really annoying, and they have really obnoxious emails. During a snow storm, they basically wrote that I should be safe, but hey donate some blood. I got an email not too long ago wishing me a happy birthday and give the gift of giving blood. It seems they're not sympathetic at all. I think its just a culmination of everything that's pissing me off.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Paying people to donate blood also attracts the wrong type of people. For example: IV drug users. People will lie on the pre-donation form just to make the $250 bucks, and then the money to workup the product goes to waste.

The shortage is more for O type units anyway. O negative blood is always in demand because it can be used in trauma situations. To be honest, even if donor numbers increased, there would still likely be a shortage of O negative units, since it's less than 5% in most areas.

The same can be said for type AB, which is needed for platelets.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: This is going to get buried.  But at one point in history up to the early 1970's they did pay.  And it became a huge issue that alcoholics and drug addicts would donate multiple times of day couple while being infected with Hep C and HIV.  They couldn't even test for HIV at the time, but by the end of the paying period 1 out of 7 blood samples were infected with Hep C due to this practice.  Theres a great series of investigative articles by a Chicago Tribune journalist I can link you to if anyone's interested.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: My company gives us PTO (paid time off) to donate blood. If we give three times in a fiscal year, we get one day. If we give six times (which is the max you can give), we get two. My company also has a policy allowing us to sell back PTO during open enrollment. As such, I can sell back the two days I earn and get paid a decent chunk for each time I donate. 

I never before gave blood before working for this company... Never had the incentive. I'm proof that paying for donors works.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Because the american medical system is based in a capitalist structure. If supply is below demand then the price goes up accordingly. The system is set up to periodically create shortages due to disdain for gouging which due to the literally vital nature of their product leads to blood drives marketed around shortages guilting them into donating. Each time the supply becomes abundant again the price reduces from where it was in the shortage but still significantly more than before. So the cost of an abundant renewable resource goes up exponentially perpetually.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: This was addressed thoroughly on Radiolab season 12 episode 1 "Blood".  From memory, blood is never in short supply.  The high price is due to blood banks taxing each other when blood Is transferred from one to the other (much like drug dealers).  It's a multimillion (billion?) industry.  A notable quote from NYC blood bank supervisor(?) after 9/11 "omg people will be lined up to give blood, most will be discarded".  There have not been a shortage in blood for a very long time and will not be in the foreseeable future.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: $250 appears a bit too much. Here in Germany you can chose to just donate without revenue or get 15 to 20 per blood donation or get a meal or a coupon for some shopping mall. It depends on which organization you chose you donate your blood. For plasma donation it's the same. 
You can donate blood up to 8 times a year and plasma up to 45 times.

So here it's more like a small gift you get in return, you can't really make a living from it.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: My friend actually works in cryo at the blood center. They have three shifts of people processing blood bags every day of the year. I'm not sure the exact process but it's a lot of equipment, a lot of staff and a lot of work. [Pic](_URL_11_) for proof. That's one night of work. She said that table has 66 units on it which has the potential to save 198 lives. Not to mention logistics and advertising blood drives. I guess I could ask her more about it.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I know hospitals in USA overcharge for everything, but doing it with blood seems unethical, that blood was donated, i know they have to do things to keep it in good condition, but i'm sure it won't be that 800$, in Spain i think the blood banks charge between 50 and 100 per blood bag, which seems fair.  

The answer to your question is probably selfishness in most cases, and fear in others, money would probably mobilize more people, but it's illegal and it should be.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I worked for Canadian Blood Services as an analyst- maybe I can help you out. In short- there is no blood shortage for most blood types. Due to the different surgical methods of reusing your own blood and laparoscopy, the demand for blood has dropped significantly. The reason why blood costs so much in American hospitals has to be mark up. In Australia and Canada, the cost per unit of blood is under $400. This includes collection (voluntary donation), testing, processing, and distribution.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I was led to believe by my economics teacher that paying people to donate blood would cause less people to give blood.  He sourced it with a study (can't find the link right now).  But in essence, people donate blood because of the good feeling they get.  It is hard to create an incentive to donate blood in addition to this "personal-high".  This also falls in line with the risk of people that need to donate blood having stds and such.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There's no blood shortage in The Netherlands. In fact when I asked they said.. yeh you can donate anything you like, but there's so much that it probably ends up in the waste. But I donate anyway, stemcells and blood. Btw there needs to be more stemcell donators. 
Oh and we don't get anything for donating, just a mug when you donated 5 times. We just like to share I suppose, many of my friends donate.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: sorry I don't buy in the economics argument. 
Blood needs to be tested anyhow, and money can be payed according results. That will filter out anybody who shouldn't donate.

if there was a price paid for, the whole blood industry would perform better, leaner, cleaner, and more efficient. 

On the other hand hospitals in US charge just because they can. You have no choice, and insurances play the game. it's all skrewed up...
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I am a blood donor.  Donor.  That means I give it for free.  I resent like hell that hospitals charge around $800 per unit for something that I gave them for free.  I know, I know...they have to store it, follow costly protocols, etc. etc. etc.  So they could charge SOMETHING for it...but hell.  I don't donate for money, so people shouldn't be profiting off of my blood.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Shelf life. 

Currently, the FDA limits the storage of red blood cells to 42 days, but studies have shown the cells begin to become damaged after just 21 days and it could be harmful to receive older blood. 

Add the fact that only 38% of the population can donate and advances in medicine that require additional blood and there's just not a lot to go around.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: RadioLab has a podcast about this very topic: [Blood](_URL_12_)

Basically, when you pay people for blood, you get more donations from those that need money. Red Cross and others used to pay for blood donations. They found that the people that donated for money tended to be less healthy than those that donated for altruism and their blood tended to have more contaminants, disease, etc.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I didn't know that all blood centers profit off my donation. Even Red Cross profits off it. I understood some costs were necessary for test and other overhead costs but i didn't know they actually profited off it. Once I learned they all did, it didn't deter me from giving but certainly motivated me to give to a local community blood bank instead.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: They actually should. In florida, an organization called One Blood does most of the donation drives, as opposed to the Red Cross. They use incentives like free movie tickets and other giveaways to draw folks generally. Red Cross generally uses emotional pleas through mailings and emails, and irritating telemarketing tactics.

Needless to say I've donated far more regularly since moving to Florida.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Donating blood is in fact very expensive for the hospital side. Depends on who pays the bill, all the processing and testing of the donated blood can cost in the hundreds. So while it is relatively cheap to set up a facility and draw people's blood, there is a very expensive process afterwards, before the blood can be used in a hospital.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: It doesn't help that they won't give you  blood for ridiculous reasons. For example, I have not been able to give blood for years now because I go on vacation out of the country, and they won't let me donate. They are going to test the blood no matter what ,so why do they just not let me donate?
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Paying anything for blood donations is a bad idea. It can lead to people who are not fit for donations to do it for the money. In Finland they offer you some sandwitches, cookies, coffee etc. but never money. It's pleasant to go there but you don't gain anything but a good feeling.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I was under the impression that the Red Cross had tried this at some point in the past, but it undermined the "giving blood = altruism" thing and turned it into an economic transaction, which significantly undermined the desire to participate in the general public.  Can't find a source for that, though.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: You have to pay to donate blood ? Wow...   

In Romania you get:  
   
* 7 meal vouchers. 1 is 2.83$ = >  7x2.83 = ~20$   
* One free day  
* 50% off for public transportation subscription for 30 days  
* free blood analysis  

450ml is the quantity you have to donate.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There are many other ways to incentivise giving blood. If when you donated blood you got a voucher to pay for some of your future hospital costs, everyone would donate blood. If I got a voucher for $250 off a hospital bill, I would donate every two months for life.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: because there is no profit for the CEO corps of this world, for caring, or keeping healthy people in mass numbers.

this is why you must learn and educate your next of kin, to be healthy from the get go, and not depend on pharmaceuticals in your adult life.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Some insight as to why hospitals charge so much for blood. My hospital gets blood donated but then has to pay to have it all tested and rebagged and whatnot at its sister hospital. Then has to buy it back from its sister hospital when it needs it.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I'm not sure on other countries but in the UK blood donation is purely altruistic - no payments made. 

I can't remember where I saw it but I read an article that suggested the 'quality' of donations seemed to be noticeably higher in the UK because of this.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There was a "this American life" about this I listened to. Basically the blood banks are just like the people who are in control of the diamond market. They hold on to extra blood, scream about a shortage that is not true to raise the price.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Well if everyone got payed 250$ for blood then eventualy when the bloodbank were getting full, the price would drop to about 25$ and you would stop giveing donatins til the price goes up again, and this would keep the bloodbank in good supply forever.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: People have pointed out the reasons why not, but I'd just like to point out that at least in South Africa you do receive payment indirectly.

If you donate blood, you will receive free blood transfers if you are ever in need of blood.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I give blood semi-regularly as I'm an o-negative donor and am CMV negative.  I usually do it when time permits but if the were paying me $250 you can bet your butt I'd be there every 56 days on the dot to donate.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Jesus H Fuckington hospitals charge you for Blood that's been donated?? What kinda shit is that?? We get charged for going to the hospital but if we need blood it's free. USA is fucked up when it comes to Medicine.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Can confirm. 

I work as a Medical Coder at a medium-sized hospital, and one of my duties is entering blood bank charges. 

We charge $912 per unit of packed red blood cells. The transfusion itself is something like $250.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: They don't pay you for it to make sure people who desperately need money like drug addicts or people who can't afford propper food donate their blood for money because their blood is of a bad quality.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: The best way to get more blood donation is throuigh increased social capital. The problem is that can't be done artifically, socialcapital is a natural byproduct of homogenius well run societies with a good core value set.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Wait, so we donate blood, and then hospitals charge people for the blood!? What the fuck!? I always thought donating blood meant you're giving someone your blood for FREE... Apparently hospitals just get rich off it?
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: So either blood banks do really good viral marketing campaigns, or some people are going to die every year from lack of donors? Seems like a good business case to buy blood if you ask me.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I just learned from my wife that we are both universal donors.  While I was dancing around because my post was going viral, she informed me that I was giving my O- away for free tomorrow.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I know in my region, the blood shortage is blamed on the weather. Since the weather has been so bad, a lot of blood drives have been canceled, leading to less blood being donated.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I like how people have to keep repeating the same exact argument in different sentences. It is a fairly valid point that donating blood would become more unethical if it was driven by profit
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I donated blood until I found out it was a for-profit thing. You're gonna make money off my blood? Fuck you, pay me. I hate the health care industry in this country.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Caught something on NPR about this back in November.

The TL;DR is that people who show up to sell blood are not the kind of people you want giving blood.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: When you start paying people for blood what was once a nice gesture to help people in need becomes a nasty way of selling your own fluids for money.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: This fact cause me to not donate. If I give my blood freely and then someone makes $800  a pint off of it then I am getting exploited.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I'd be willing to donate blood if I got something more than a damn cookie for being stuck by a needle and drained of my life source.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: What the shit? I thought donating blood ment whoever who needed my donated blood will get it. But instead they need to PAY for it? Wtf
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Anyone know how much people are charged per unit of blood in Canada? Or Ontario? Just curious, tried doing a search but couldn't find anything specific.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I have AB- blood. I give every time I can since I know it is so rare.

Edit: Looked it up. I am the 0.6%
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: In Ireland they used to offer a pint of Guinness for a pint of blood in my university. They had very high donation levels.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Why pay 250$ for a donation when you can get it for free? A shortage just means you can inflate the prices even more.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Or on the contrary.. if the get the hospitals get the blood for free, why do they charge $800 per unit!?
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Australian blood donators receive a biscuit and a cup of tea.

Yet, they still don't understand why the bank is empty.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: I think it's silly that you have to pay for blood at all what kind of backwards country are you from?
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Capitalism aka Corruptism

They pay like $20 - $30 per unit and sell it for $$$. 

Similar to saline water....
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Stupid question here.  Do hospitals charge patients for donated blood and how because that seems evil.  End stupid question
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There was an excellent Radiolab piece about this not too long ago. Check it out. Very interesting.

_URL_13_
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: They could always be bending the truth.  The $400,000 hospital administrator salary has to come from somewhere.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: [This Radiolab podcast talks a bit about the blood business and how hospitals distribute blood supply.](_URL_14_)
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Somebody has to pay for the hospital administrators' Mercedes and second home on the seashore.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Because then the CEOs of the blood banks can't make mid to high 6 figures
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: College student here. I'd do it. Set up an office buying blood near campus. Win-win.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: They charge 800 per units? Its free in Argentina. Damn, US sucks health wise.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: In the UK a unit of blood costs 0 because our healthcare isn't retarded.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: This is how you get blood bandits. Do you *really* want blood bandits?
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: It's been proven that more people donate when there is no monetary reward.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Because you live in the USA and profit if more important than health
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Germany here. You recieve in common about 40$ and a free meal.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: That is such a good business idea. Selling blood. Vampire Inc.
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: There's a great radio lab on this topic...very eye opening!
question: Why is there a blood shortage? Hospitals charge like $800 per unit. Why don't they pay $250 for a donation. Everyone would donate. ELI5 answer: Hospials "Giving Away Money" ? When pigs fly!
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: Many flowers secrete nectar as part of their biology. They lack the ability to move pollen from the male flowers to the female flowers so they entice bees and insects with nectar with the hope the while the bees collect the nectar they also move the pollen around allowing for the fertilization of the plant species.

Honey bees have a special compartment in their body to hold nectar. This compartment (called the crop or honey stomach) is designed to allow the bee nectar storage while it is foraging. When the forager bee returns to the hive she passes the nectar to a receiver bee who puts it in a wax comb cell for ripening. Nectar has a high moisture content, perhaps 40+%, but the bees want to store the honey for future consumption. They regulate the humidity in the hive via wing flapping over fresh stored nectar and move air in and out from the entrances. Once the honey is at 17/18% moisture content it is ready for capping. The bees cap the cell with wax and that honey will stay in storage until they need it.

If the season goes well, the colony may collect for example, twice the amount of honey they will need for winter. The beekeeper can take that extra and this harvesting does not harm the bees at all.
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: Honey is bee vomit, which the bees save to feed themselves later.
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: Honey is a bit more complex than just sugars. It also has antibacterial properties. It makes a decent wound dressing.
 > The healing property of honey is due to the fact that it offers antibacterial activity, maintains a moist wound condition, and its high viscosity helps to provide a protective barrier to prevent infection.

_URL_1_ 

Honey can also be poisonous. 
 > Poisoning can also happen if you eat honey made by bees that used the oleander plant for nectar.

_URL_0_
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: "What is honey" has been adequately answered already. Harming the bees? No, unless you're doing it wrong. Doing it wrong would entail destroying the hive and taking all the honey in the fall, after plants have stopped flowing. The bees need protection and food for the hive to survive through the winter. Typically, the hives are built so that you can easily remove frames full of honey comb. We had bees when I was a kid, and we would put on gloves, long sleeves, and a mesh hood, to keep from getting stung. We would blow smoke into the hive to drive the bees away, pull out the frames of honey that we wanted, and put the hive back together. 

To get the honey, we would cut the surface caps off of the comb, and centrifuge the honey out.

Finally, different flowers certainly have an effect on what the honey tastes like. I can't answer you about tracing it back, but there are certainly measurable differences between clover honey and apple tree honey. 

Also, mass market honey you find in stores is almost certainly not real honey. It's far easier and quicker to make it from sugar and flavorings than to deal with bees. If you want real honey, go to a farmer's market or something similar.

Edit: upon further review, my last statement is questionable. The "fake" honey is apparently ultra-filtered honey, which removes all the pollen. This process causes the honey to be less likely to crystallize, so it has a longer shelf life. It is still an open question whether some honey might be manufactured instead of bee-made.
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: It is mainly water, glucose and fructose,  with some other sugars and traces of other compounds in.

If you take too much,  the hive will starve and die.  The hive will survive some being harvested though.
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: I've always wondered -- is honey considered vegan?
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: Please support your local beekeepers! You can find their products at many farmer's markets and fairs.  Stock up for the year, it keeps well. Grocery story honey is often cut with corn syrup and is generally flavorless.
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: in the simplest term its bee vomit, but its more complicated then that, do we harm the bees when we harvest? no the bees overproduce honey, and we also give suggar stuff to feed them.
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: You may not be able to trace it back to the exact hive, but you can trace it to what type of flower was the majority in pollination - clover, thistle, etc
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: Note that honey isn't just evaporated nectar. Enzymes and digestive processes take effect while the nectar is in the bee's honey-stomach, changing the nature of the sugars.
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: >  Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same?

Read about Chinese honey dumping if you're curious about this sort of thing.  They filter out the pollen from it so you can't tell where it came from, and dump it on the market.  So yes, to some degree you can track where honey has come from, due to the pollens in it.
question: What is honey? I know honey comes from bees, and I know honey is delicious on toast, but what is honey, and does it harm the bees we harvest it from? Can you trace back a batch of honey to the hive it came from, or is all honey the same? answer: I've wondered recently what honey would be like if the bees had exclusive access to a cannibus crop.
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: Chimps and bonobos also have sex for pleasure. Bonobos use it as social bonding. Chimps... it's kind of just a lot of rape.
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: Dogs generally hump other dogs to express dominance over each other.
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: Every animal has sex for pleasure.  It gratifies an instinctual need.
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: Whenever you hear a factoid like 'X and Y are the only animals that do Z for (reason)' - it's generally wrong.  Someone made it up to fill space in a magazine or website article, and people just sorta've started believing it.
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: Your dog isn't looking for pleasure, it's trying to relieve it's libido.

Having sex for pleasure means you have sex even though your body isn't pushing you to do it. Your dog is pretty much always getting pushed by its body to have sex to reproduce.
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: Dogs do it to assert dominance. If your dog constantly is humping your leg then you really need to think about who is being dominant in the pack. You should always be the alpha, but your dog *will* take control if you let them... And having an alpha dog is an absolute nightmare, because they do whatever they want and don't obey you at all.
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: where did you hear that? sounds like a load of BS to me

just one example _URL_0_
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: Your premise is incorrect, but a dog humping things is not about sex it's about social order, the dog is trying to establish dominance.  

As for humans and dolphins, there a many many many more species that have been observed engaging in non reproductive sex, which is what I think you meant.
question: why if humans and dolphins are the only creatures to have sex for pleasure, why does my dog hump everything in sight? answer: I'm pretty sure quite a few animals have gay sex. So the premise behind your question is incorrect.
question: how come dinosaurs were so much bigger than todays animals? answer: I seem to remember reading somewhere that the atmosphere had a higher amount of oxygen which allowed larger species to exist.  Larger organisms have larger muscles which require more oxygen.  I guess if dinosaurs would exist today, they would be constantly on the verge of asphyxiation, if not just plain dead.

Again, going from spotty memory here and too lazy to look it up.
question: how come dinosaurs were so much bigger than todays animals? answer: higher oxygen supply in the air plus plenty of plants allowed the plant eaters to eat more.  the more they were eating, the bigger they grew.

meat eaters got bigger too as their prey kept getting bigger.  they had to get big or they wouldn't be able to survive.
question: how come dinosaurs were so much bigger than todays animals? answer: More oxygen. same reason insects were NOPE sized.
question: how come dinosaurs were so much bigger than todays animals? answer: Fyi blue whale is the biggest animal of all time and it still exists :-)
question: how come dinosaurs were so much bigger than todays animals? answer: Correct me if I'm wrong but didn't the canopy exist keeping more oxygen in the air for larger animals?
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: The thing about government is that it has to be slow to adopt these technologies to function well as they have to be able to server literally everyone, not just most. There are plenty of people that don't have smart phones but still drive, or don't have internet and drive. We know the current license and registration system works, why change it? Additionally something like a driver's license has to be somewhat immune to fakes, I'm not sure there's a good solution that would work on a phone. Additionally many people would have reservations about giving their phones to police, notice the uproar over customs agents asking for people to unlock their phones so they can poke around?
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Actual cop here when I ask for license and registration ti'm really asking for each for a different purpose. I ask for your license because a lot of times the driver isn't the registered owner of the car.  Sure I can look it up by name/dob, but the card lets me compare faces right there. You can give me someone's name/dob that looks super similar to you, and get away with it. Most fake IDs are easy as hell to spot. Once I get someone's license I don't even bother to look at the dates on it, I just run their license number through NCIC to make sure it is valid.

I ask for registration for the sole purpose of showing people their shit is actually expired. I know it is expired because I already ran it before I pulled you, but 99% of the time I'll get a "it can't be expired" or "there is no way it has been expired that long". If they've already dug out the registration is can literally point to it and end that line of argument.

Another good thing about asking for documents is that it is great for getting people who are drunk/high. Most can get their IDs just fine, but I've yet to see a drunk get their registration right on the first try.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I never realised it was law to carry your license  &  registration in the U.S. Here in the UK if you get pulled over  &  asked for your licence, if you don't have it you get something like a week to drop by your local station to produce it. Also the records of registered keepers of all vehicles are stored on a database so you don't need to show that at all.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: 1) Not everyone has a phone and they cannot legally require you to purchase one. 

2) Even if you have a phone they cannot legally require you to have an app or connect your data to it. 

3) There are large stretches of the country without cell service. This would render your system useless in those areas. 

4) Many would not be willing to hand their phone over to a police officer. The potential for data being stolen is too high. You also have to hand it over when purchasing alcohol, going to bars, going to R rated movies, etc. There is just too much risk to have ID being digital. 

5) Having it be digital means it is more vulnerable to attack, and corruption.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Technology isn't perfect, and databases aren't always up to date.

I was once pulled over by a cop. He told me that he ran my plates, and I was flagged as having an expired registration. When he came up to my car he saw my registration sticker on the windshield, saw that it was current and correct, explained the mix up, and then let me leave.

With that said, I've pulled up my insurance on my phone and cops have taken it. I just have to hope my phone is always charged when I'm pulled over.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I see a lot of really wrong answers her, the real reason is money. I was a patrolman back in the early nineties and all license and registration info was available through dispatch. We know before we ever approached the driver whether or not your registration is up and who owns the vehicle.


Your failure to bring an extremely thin piece of paper with you everywhere you drive results in a ticket and court fees. In some places it also leads to impoundment and applicable fees. I could go on and on but I hate making comments using my phone.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: In the US if you don't have your drivers license on you, a police officer can indeed just run your name and birthday and find out if your valid. Although you will get a citation for not having it if you and/or the officer are jerks at the encounter. It's just easier if you have it and they can just take it and scan it. Also, I'm not sure if their computers can pull your picture to verify you're not giving them someone else's name and DOB. Many rural areas probably still do radio dispatching. 

Also, in the US there's no requirement to carry a passport or national ID card, so a driver's license is a de-facto ID card for drinking, cashing a check, renting a hotel room, whatever (If you don't drive you can get a non-drivers-license state ID card). Generally children don't have a need to carry an ID until they're old enough to drive. 

And believe it or not, everyone does not have a smartphone. My mother and sister do not, just "old fashioned" flip phones.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Love how everyone is downplaying the biggest reason - at this point phone app technology is still nowhere near as secure as piece of laminated plastic with a hologram watermark  &  magnetic strip on it. 

Not to mention it would make it so very likely that someone would hack that data base to steal the personal information for one of the biggest credit fraud schemes in history...
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: As a prior cop really... Honestly if you didn't have your license but k ew your SSN that was okay. Or if the car was registered to you I could just run the plates and then get your drivers customer number off that. 

Having a license makes it easier since all your info is right there on a little card. 

Really as long as you were licensed I didn't give a shit if you had it or not. I can pull the DMV picture up to ensure its you regardless...unless it's down which it does go down from time to time.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: It shouldn't be in our phones, it should be in their phones. 

You tell them "I'm gsasquatch born on 5/22/17" and they punch that into their device, get your picture to verify, and it's as good as having handed them a license.    If you're getting pulled over in a car, they probably already have run the plate through SCMODS.     They could easily carry all the drivers license data of everyone in the state off line in their car, and download any other state as long as they have connectivity.   In areas of no cell signal there aren't many people around nor crime happening.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I haven't seen it mentioned yet so I'll add this. You're required to carry your driver's license, registration, and insurance because if you are in an accident, people need to be able to identify who you are whether you're alive or dead. If it's "in your phone" then people can't get access to it. If you hit someone with your car then you are required to exchange information and having your phone not work isn't an acceptable excuse to not provide your information.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: You don't? Least you don't in the UK.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I'd rather have a license on a card. Why are you all so eager to have every bit of discoverable personal information out there on the internet?
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Also, let's not forget how useful driver licenses are for general identification. Good luck trying to buy alcohol without a physical ID.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Driver's licenses need to work in under all conditions:

- Places with no connectivity.
- After being exposed to rough conditions (underwater, extreme heat/cold).
- Be time convenient (imagine the line at an event if everyone had to unlock their phone to show ID).
- When the device may be otherwise incapacitated (battery's dead, etc).
- When the owner may be otherwise incapacitated (you're dead, etc).

It's a source of revenue. If you get stopped without your DL that's an opportunity to charge you a fee. If you lose it, you got it... fee.

Finally, it's hard for the government to standardize something like a DL that may be valid for much longer than you would typically hold on to a phone.

So, you end up with a little plastic card whose workings are tightly controlled, only requires enough light to be read, and is pretty much indestructible from any event that would not require dental records to make a positive use identification.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: cloud/digital documents and data it's still a very young concept. every officer would have to be trained on verifying the information, local jurisdictions would have to figure out a safe and practical way for an officer to look at the data. if you get pulled over, do you hand your $800 phone to the cop so he can go in his car and do his duties? do you want to hand your phone to a cop? some may not want that. i wouldn't.  what if your phone is dead? or has no signal? how will you prove your identity? what if the cloud is down? some states do have an official dmv app which has your license, but each state would have to develop their own system.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: In Australia we will have digital licences soon. We already have ditched registration stickers on vehicles. Our Police cars have special cameras that can scan multiple lanes of traffic that check the registration of up to 1 million vehicles per hour.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: In addition to the slowness of governments to adopt and adapt to new technologies, frankly, I don't want to hand my phone over to a cop. That's a good way for them to just happen to find incriminating evidence or a way to never see that phone again.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Why the heck would you want to rely on a phone for something that important? technology is incredibly unreliable. your phone could run out of battery, break, lose connection with the internet or simply decide to not co-operate at that moment. Having a physical card is safer, faster and easier.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Just like your phone and wifi at home, sometimes law enforcement technology is not working. Databases go under regular maintenance and are down at times. Sometimes things straight up aren't working statewide (California) and it may take a few days to fix it. It's times like these that hard copies of your documents are needed. Also not having documents prolongs the stop by requiring the officers to search databases to make sure everything matches, i.e. your picture. Traffic stops are dangerous, especially when it comes to passing motorists trying to see what is going on. Every minute faster the stop can be greatly enhances the safety of the officer and driver.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Some states have already done away with it. Officers will still request it just because it's a quick verification step, but they can look everything up by your name on their computers in their squad cars.

I know in my state at least you are not required to have your license or registration on you while driving.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: In India, the government has launched an app called digilocker which allows you to download your license and registration directly from the government servers. It is considered equivalent to carrying a physical copy. Times sure are changing.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: You can use your phone for insurance, which is a cool feature in life, right?

OK, now think about this: The cop asks for insurance; you provide insurance via your phone; the cop takes your phone to verify insurance....the cop now has your phone. 

Now what? What's to stop the cop from trying to access personal information, such as contacts or pictures? When's the last time you were pulled over where you had the *privilege* to walk back to the police vehicle and monitor the cop? 

 >  But if they use a hand scanner.....

OK, what if the hand scanner isn't working? You think they're going to write down your info or take a photo of your phone? Nope! 

This is why a physical copy of your insurance is valuable. You hand it to 'em/they do whatever with it/they hand it back. Their squad car *hopefully* captures the motions of it. 

Digital licenses? Imagine the pain when you're in nowhere, USA trying to buy a beer and "the database is down". From discrimination to corruption: this is a HORRIBLE idea. I can easily picture, just like folks still do today, cases where you don't wanna serve someone so you just make up an excuse about "the database". 

"Hey, the database is down right now for running your license. We'll just need to wait here for a bit...."
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Having the technology doesn't mean it works. I had an ordeal this year Texas where I was denied renewal of my license due to "failure to appear" court charges. The problem was these "court charges" magically appeared on my record and were dated 1999. I was born in 1987, so these "failure to appear" charges were from when I was 12 years old. Oh and they were in a city I had never been to. 

Apparently the issue was that Texas reuses suspended drivers license #'s and I got someone else's # when I turned 16. Fast forward 15  years and that person tried to renew at the same time as me causing their criminal record added to my account. I had even called Omnibase who runs the software for Texas DL #'s and they told me that I had warrants for my arrest and that I would have to talk to the police/court. Turns out they were either lying or incompetent. 

In a separate instance I was almost arrested at my apartment by a warrant officer who mistakenly came after me instead of someone with the same first and last name. 

I don't really have much faith in these systems.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: If the records were accessible to the police on their computers inside if their cars, I don't see why the driver would need to have a smartphone. That being said, the aforementioned problem of Internet availability still comes into play
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: _URL_0_

There are already states that allow you to have your ID on your smartphone. AL and MS are the ones that I can think of. I support the software.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Dispatch here.

If the name isn't given to us exactly as listed, often the return won't show. That leaves you on the side of the road trying to prove you're valid without any documentation that you are if we can't find your return with what's given. 

Complicating matters even more, a driver's license isn't federal. If I run Michigan here in Georgia, I may not be able to get a return on name  &  DOB because Michigan requires your number. Not that my example is Michigan-specific, it varies from state to state what the requirements are. 

As also mentioned already, it's money, money, money. In-car computers require money for installation, purchase, upkeep, individual NCIC/state terminal numbers for each terminal or user, same as access points that are inside dispatch offices, courthouses, law enforcement offices, etc. Each user has to be trained and certified. They have to be paid for training time. 

Also, same as cell phones and Internet elsewhere doesn't always work, it's the same for car computers and air cards. 

The considerations from beat officers seems to have been discussed here. 

Believe me when I say that I think most law enforcement from all levels would enjoy that convenience. We have to have money to make it happen, and taxpayers are usually already mad that their money is misused or misallocated elsewhere, so getting them on board to provide more becomes a political pissing contest.  

Another mention: if someone in the vehicle is being squirrely, I'd rather run it for my officer so he/she can protect himself/herself by keeping eyes on the vehicle's occupants.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: $$$.  All police cars have on board computers that could easily link to Secretary of State databases of vehicle registration.  

Driver license could be similar if facial recognition tools were more advanced. 

However, insurance companies have no mandate to share customer data.  Only politicians without ties to the insurance industry could pass regulations to share.  

Of course local police forces would be giving up ticket revenues, so don't wait for change.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I think it should be tied to your licence plate. 

Also, ive read that in some states, you dont actually need to carry the card. Ill try to find a source
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Drivers licenses will be digital in Iowa next year.  [Des Moines Register](_URL_1_)
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Well the most obvious reason is to make sure you have a drivers license to begin with. Since it is against the law in all 50 states to operate a vehicle without a license. It is also government form of issued identification. So, when the cop pulls you over and ask for your state ID there is no question as to who you are. By having everything ready  in hand, it just moves the process faster. Having to rely on a phone or technical device is not always faithful. You need internet connection to access the cloud. You get pulled over. No 4G around now what? Take a picture and have saved on your phone. But shit happens to phones. People lose them, they break, stolen, hacked into. You may not want photos of your license, and registration out there ready for the public to grab. You may seem an honest and trustworthy person. The person next to you may not be.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I scrolled halfway through the comments and am shocked no one mentioned this.

This will never happen because not having your license/registration etc *generates revenue.*

Making you register your car, renew your license is one revenue stream

Failing to have those documents when you get pulled over is another (tickets are revenue generating)

Spending *million of dollars* to make this easier hits States and municipalities twice because they are literally spending money to lose money. 

All the privacy comments being posted, while valid, are not the types of things people think about at the local government level. Local governments look to cut costs or raise revenue. Conversion to digital documents for drivers does neither.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I just wanted to point out, that [is a thing](_URL_2_) that is starting to happen.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Why would you hand your phone to a cop?
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Here in NSW, Australia, when a vehicle is registered with the authorities - which is mandatory if it is to be driven on public roads - it also has to have current 3rd party insurance to protect at least the other party if injured in an accident.
Both of these details are linked in with the NSW Police who have the ability to check if a vehicle is registered and insured within seconds.
In fact, many of our Highway Patrol Vehicles (specially modified high performance sedans) have the ability to continually scan license plates whilst in motion and alert the officers on-board of an unregistered vehicle.

In regards to the driver's license, all police vehicles have the capability to lookup a license holder on the system, but by law all drivers are required to carry their license on their person when driving as a form of identification and license permissions (eg. a class C only license holder cannot drive a truck or ride a motorcycle, or a learner/provisional license holder cannot travel at certain speeds and have a zero PCA limit).  
Certain tech enthusiasts have suggested embedding this data into a microchipped implant though - it hasn't been ruled out...
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: My insurance company didn't offer physical cards when I first joined them. I guess they send out new ones in mass quantities? So I only had a screenshot of my digital card that was sent in a email. We got pulled over coming back from vacation and it seemed to work just fine. They generally just check the date to make sure it's valid.

Now the ID thing is probably to protect your identity. People can easily steal information from your phone especially if you're one of those people that leave Bluetooth and wifi on 24/7 even when not using the he service. 

Personally I don't mind having to carry a ID all the time. It how come we have 4 types of ID cards in the US? That's the annoying part.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: The cloud, as you call it, is expensive and barely reliable enough for government services. To universally house data for 300 million citizens requires a rather large mound of hard drives that need to all be working together, which costs quite a bit in terms of setup and electricity, in addition to tape backups and an excellent security system to prevent identity theft. 

Granted, it's more efficient than paper, but you'd also have to get every state together to merge all of their data or, even better, abandon state identity issuing systems and rely on the federal government. (GLHF)
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I understand why a phone may not be the answer for the same reasond many other commenters have made.  But I do not understand why we need to carry a licence at all.  These days (at least in Australia) the cops have a computer connected to the database of all drivers.  They can display your photo and driving history at the click of a few keys.  Given all of the information on my licence is from this database, why can't they just look me up?
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I live in Australia in Queensland. 
We only have to bring our licence, our registration and insurance are paid as the same payment (insurance is only for 3rd party) and is checked using our registration plate. We won't be fined if we get pulled up without our licence on us, just police will warn to carry always. We usually just bring our license with us anyway though as it is used for I.D for everything. So it's just in our wallet/purse as a rule.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Top responses are missing the important bits.

I'd should come down to three different things. Something you know, something you have, and something you are.

You HAVE a licensed, you KNOW what's on it and about the car, and you ARE the person in the picture.

Using a phone as an Id pic is bad because Photoshop and apps make it impossible to tell what is being shown is authentic. A moderately hard to produce physical card is better to HAVE.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: you dont. your country just needs to get up to date tech. our cop cars have cameras and in-car computers that simply scan the rego plate (tags in your country) and report if the vehicle is registered or not. they use OCR technology to scan every vehicle that drives past them, in both directions so if your car is unrego'd, expect the copper to pull up behind you as soon as you see one.

Edit: Rego plate not license plate ;)
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I have worked a bit with my state's legislature and I can tell you that they wouldn't allow that because there are nutters that think this leads to some conspiracy by the U.N. or Belgium or maybe getting tattoo of the beast number or some other crazyness. Those nutters are 4/4 voters - they vote in every primary. Because gerrymandering to favor incumbents and because normal people don't vote in primaries, the nutters influence is strong. So no techie ID system.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: The first and last time I got arrested, the police officer was trying to take my prints. However, it was a machine hooked up to a desktop computer and not the regular ink/paper he was obviously used to. 

He had to call over two extra officers to figure it out. It was a check box they had forgotten to fill out before proceeding. Those three cops would need an awful amount of training to be able to access cloud storage.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Aussie here (Sydney) ,  our police here have definitely embraced the technology,  all we have to do is pass them by on a highway and their cameras can spot our car plates and check if registered or if the owner has anything outstanding even while moving,  takes them a matter of seconds. It's become there favorite source of fines as when caught the fine is approx $900, not sure why your law enforcement wouldn't want something like this
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I have all my car info (insurance,registration,yadda yadda) all on my phone and when cops pull me over they always ask for it as they should and I just hand them my phone. Never had a problem with it until some old geezer told me I needed paper to which I told him I didn't and he tried to ding me for no proof of insurance. Even the judge just looked at the cop like... "are you serious?"
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: All the comments here are about technology, and I'm sure this will get buried... However, CARRY YOUR LICENSE!
If you're in an accident and unconscious, the emergency personnel at the scene are looking for your license in order to figure out who you are.  Your phone may be cracked or locked... No good.

They'll use that license once you're at the hospital to begin looking online and finding a way to contact someone close to you.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I have been driving for about 30 years now, and I'm still not quite sure by what they mean by "registration".  I have always just handed my license and proof of insurance.  I keep my tag tax receipt in my car as well, which I figure is what they mean by registration, but I don't understand why that is necessary since there is a sticker on my tag showing rather or not the tags are expired.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: A few months back i got pulled over for the exhaust. I forgot my license at home so he looked up my info I gave him and gave me a citation for not having my license on me. It was a $289 ticket for not carrying a fucking plastic rectangle. There was no reason to even give me a ticket over something that petty, let alone something they could and did easily look up.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I got pulled over a few months back and did not have my insurance paper in the vehicle since I took it out for some stupid reason. I told the officer I had insurance and he responded with "I know, I'd you didn't you'd be getting a much bigger fine" 

So if you know I have insurance based on your database why do I deserve a ticket.. because it "slowed him down" 

Ridiculous.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I can actually answer this because I was pulled over and asked why forgetting my registration made the stop 20mins. Turns out cops are constantly accessing the databases that holds your info in their cloud. Having all your info on you literally cuts out timely lookups that are already clusterfucked and done wirelessly. Basically, its easier for everyone to just keep your info handy.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: In Australia we don't have to carry anything , though most people will have their license on hand. Some police cars are equipped with cameras that automatically run the plates of any car that comes into view for insurance etc. Have a friend driving to the R.T.A to put in his paper work and was pulled over 3 times on a 20min drive.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: We have the registration bit in Australia. They run the license plate on their devices to find out if you're up to date on registration and such. They also use it to track you down for other stuff

With the license thing, you have to carry it but if you're not you just take the ticket and your license to a police station
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Because there is no incentive for the powers that be (government) to change it.

The police departments can't generate revenue ticketing for not having your license and/or registration on you if it's not required.
The sooner they make that a reality, the sooner the government loses that revenue stream.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: One reason I haven't seen yet: travel. Your drivers license is an international document that is valid in many countries throughout the world (some exceptions apply). Doing away with physical licenses would be a huge issue for officers in other countries, car rentals, etc.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: I think a lot of people, including OP, don't realize just how many places you can drive that have very poor or even no cellular signal. Having the information on the cloud doesn't work when you have no access to the cloud.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Actually we have enough technology where the officer can just run your plate and have everything he needs. If he had a body camera on, it could verify your identity by your face.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Have you ever seen a cop show? Criminals constantly give false info and have to check their systems, someone holding a card with their details makes it easier to identify people
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: So what if you're driving in another country and you don't have data. How are you going to access your license then. Better just to have a physical card.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Even better, let's just have that implanted under our skin so we can get tagged and bagged. We're just property after all with the illusion of privacy.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: So you want to hand your unlocked phone to a government official to then sit in their car with for 5 - 10 minutes?  No thanks.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: In my experience, cops don't ask for registration.  They ask for license and proof of insurance.  

I live in Oregon, for reference.
question: Why do we still need to bring our license and registration to drive? Considering it's 2017 and we have enough technology to have all this information in the cloud / in our phones and match with the cops information. answer: Because believe it or not there are still some that don't have a phone, and phones' batteries run out
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: A combination of the following (one, the other, or both, to varying degrees of limitation and/or price):

* You own a website, online service, or mobile app; but Verizon slows it so it takes a long time to load *unless* you pay them.
* You subscribe to the internet as an end user. Facebook and Google load slowly, Netflix and YouTube run at standard def only, and LiveLeak and BitTorrent are totally blocked. Your ping time in games is abysmal UNLESS you pay extra for a "Premium Subscriber" package.

ISPs then introduce their own content services, which will of course run much faster than anyone else's over their own connections. They take all the ad revenue, and you are stuck with their service which they can do whatever they want with (including charge for it - but charge less than what they charge to use a competitor's). The original content providers slowly die off, as people don't want to pay for the "Netflix" package since they already pay for Netflix, or for the YouTube package since YouTube is supposed to be free.

They make all the money and control all the information flow. Little startup companies who can't afford to pay for all their user's bandwidth? Gone. With the competition eliminated, these companies have no reason to really innovate, and the internet becomes a crappy text-based version of cable-TV: super-high subscription fees, crap content, and no freedom to innovate.

It's really a shit excuse to sap as much money from people as they can, but if it happens it will cost much, much more.

EDIT: One silver lining is that we may see more startup ISPs who DON'T pull this kind of crap - but that will be very difficult because the big boys provide all the "information superhighway" wires that connect the internet across long ranges, and they'll just charge the small ISPs to lease bandwidth from the big connection lines.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: You can think of it basically like [this](_URL_0_) picture was a real picture on an ISP pricing page.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: > I know what a lot of people FEAR will happen, but what is the reality?

People have reasons for having those fears. Go back a decade, and you'll notice people fearing the Patriot Act could be misused for dubious practices, a fear which has been realized. 

_URL_1_

Just because the ramifications seem too far fetched for us today does not mean they will not happen.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Think of toll roads versus interstate highways. Verizon wants to charge either the users a toll for certain applications ie) Facebook, Facetime, Skype.. or charge owners of those services. This drastically will reduce competition and advancements because users are not going to pay money to try something new and unproven yet, and on the flip side if the owners have to pay more money there will be less money to put back into the business.

Another explanation is that all internet is already payed for on both ends of the line. If i run a website I am paying to host that website on the internet, and someone accessing it is paying to be connected to the internet. Verizon wants to have a say which sites/services should caugh up more money if their paying customers happen to go to said websites.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: basically Telecoms want to turn the Internet into a tiered paid subscription. Just like television.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: You know how when you pay for tv, you buy it in packages? You can buy HD packages, and sports packages, and packages that give you HBO?

Well without net neutrality, companies can charge more for you to go to Youtube, as opposed to just checking your email.

It's the difference between paying money at a buffet, and being able to try everything, and having to pay for each course.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: It would be the end of a golden era of shared information. It would turn a platform into a product. Instead of unlimited access to the internet at a price, it would be specific portions of the internet at varying qualities and prices, like tv. The smaller sites (Independant sites, blogs, ect.) would likely die out leaving only the larger corporation run sites (Facebook, google, youtube, ebay, ect), which would likely be offered in bundles and packages, featuring only approved content. *Please note that I am a dumbass on the internet with no real knowledge on the subject, this is just my two cents.*
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: We all will be bent over and screwed even harder by service providers. 'Murica, for the corportations, by the corporations.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Think of it like your standard TV cable package.

You will probably pay nothing, or very little for the most basic, minimal usage of the internet.  Like basic cable. You won't get a lot, but its cheap.

If you want more fancy websites, like Youtube and Facebook, you are going to have to pay a little bit more.  Its like adding ESPN, USA, or other networks onto your TV. It also costs a bit more.

If you want all internet, or the most internet, you are going to have to cough up the most.  Like HBO, Starz, and Showtime.

The reason people dislike it or are afraid of it, is because it makes it much more difficult for smaller and new websites to get any viewing, because no one will pay for that.  Think of it like living in NYC, and trying to pay for a local broadcasting in LA.  No one is going to do that.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: The big providers might get away with their tiered system for a while but only for a little while (1-5 years lets say).  Because just when they start to feel comfortable with the new higher level of revenue they are dragging in, the whole thing will collapse as soon as Google comes to town with not only significantly faster service, but no tiers and no bullshit, just wide open internet access 24/7.  You see Google saw this coming a years ago and they know that this greed on the part of the majors will only help them sell a newer better system, makes it easy actually.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: To anybody saying, "oh, the ISP's won't abuse this new power without net neutrality". Remember a lot of people said the same thing about the government with the Patriot Act.

If you give people power, it will be used. Period.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Nothing.

At least not at first.

These companies play the game for the long haul.  When they get a ruling on their side they know that people are against them, so they don't act for a while.  They'll sit it out for a while as all the original hubbub dies down.  People have short memories and even worse attention spans.  But slowly and surely, they'll make moves.  They'll start to acquire companies that they'll use in the future to maximize their power and profit.  Then they'll start pulling t he crap that other people are posting about.  That's when certain sites will conveniently start to slow down and when certain other ones automagically become "premium" services.  

Heyve already set the precedent with things like cable TV and cell phones.  Its all fucken data.  Its all 1s and 0s, so why do I need a separate voice, texting *and* data plan?  This is the type of shit they will pull.  But they'll wait.  They'll start implementingthese type of pricing structures slowly, and not too coincidentally, ALL the service providers will do it together.  Just like with cell phone plans... when vVerizon announces a plan, AT & T has a mirror image of that plan within weeks.  And its never to the customers advantage.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: As someone who does NOT live in the USA, do you think there will be significant flow-on effects for me?
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Can someone please explain to me why Facebook, Google, Yahoo, etc are not flipping the **** out right now?
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: I guess we would make our own internet.  We'd need Al Gore.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: >   I know what a lot of people FEAR will happen, but what is the reality?

Most of the stuff in the other comments is fear based, although it's important to note that it all *could* happen if the law is changed without careful consideration, and we have good reason to be concerned.

*Why* Verison is looking for change is important, and a valid concern on their part.

The ISP business model is based on overselling their capacity. If they have a 100Mb/s link in the network they can safely sell five 20Mb/s connections and never have an issue; but unless all five connections are constantly maxed out the network will be under-utilised, it makes sense to sell more connections until the actual usage gets closer to capacity. Higher return means higher profits and/or lower prices.

Traditionally this has worked very well, customers (simplifying) only use the network when downloading a web page, and for most pages this is only a small amount of data and take a small amount of time (just think about how long you look at reddit pages versus how long you're waiting for them to load), you can put a lot of customers into a limited amount of bandwidth this way, unless everyone coincidentally tries to load a page at the same time the system will handle it.

Recently though, steaming video has changed this, Netflix and similar services make up a massive portion of total internet traffic. When streaming data connections are sustained for very long periods of time, and if the video is HD it occupies a lot of bandwith. It's becoming more common for enough people to be using data at the same time to strain ISP resources, improving capacity severely cuts into the ISP's bottom line (remember, most people don't watch Netflix 24/7, during non-peak periods the network becomes very under utilised).

Some ISPs use throttling to keep on top of this but to be neutral they can't discriminate, all traffic is sped up or slowed. ISPs would like to be able to prioritise bandwidth selectively, if they can limit Netflix traffic to a portion of their capacity they have the rest to service other kinds of traffic.

Obviously the business side of this could allow the ISP to sell additional capacity on their network to customers or sites that were otherwise limited. This would mean Netflix or its users would need to pay for the peak strain they put on the system, offsetting the ISP's cost of boosting capacity. This is of course the part people think will be abused, if an ISP could limit you to a tiny fraction of their capacity unless you cough up a hefty fee then this creates issues for all sites on the Internet.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Is there some way we can pool our money together and put Verizon out of business?  Maybe we can crowdsource our own isp.  

Anyone got any ideas?  Lets talk.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Right now, we have the same access to everything on the big table that is the internet.  Slow downs have to do with how many people want a dish, and how slow the servers are in serving it up. 

Without net neutrality, suddenly this internet table would have some plates easier to eat than others, the restaurant owner decides what you get served rather your communication to the servers or your ability to navigate the crowds.

Maybe the restaurant has a problem with pork or prefers pepsi over coke.  Maybe you won't get the meals you prefer, like you can now, as your entire experience will be tailored by the restaurant owner.  

This hasn't happened before in a big scale before, so no one knows how it will affect our meal.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Verizon and the FCC aren't working together to overturn net neutrality regulations as the title somewhat implies. The FCC created the net neutrality rules, and Verizon is challenging their validity.

It's important to remember that these rules are very new: they were only adopted in 2010. The problem with predicting what would happen if the rules were overturned is that the net neutrality push has pretty much been preemptive, so there's not a huge amount of stuff to point to in terms of actual things that the rules were preventing.

The major actual examples that I'm aware of are Comcast's interference with BitTorrent (which predated the rules), and MetroPCS creating service levels that only allowed video from YouTube, not other providers.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Ultimately, ISPs will be regulated like utilities.  It is inevitable.  Unfortunately, it looks like companies like Comcast will have to destroy the internet before we move in that direction.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: To answer this question, I'd think of the internet as having a bunch of train stations (IP Addresses) and a bunch of trains (Internet Service Providers - ISPs). Right now, everyone with an ISP pays some amount of money for unlimited train access - more money can get you a faster train, but it doesn't matter where you're going. 

This court case is not really about who owns the tracks, but rather a question on whether an ISP can limit your train access or charge you more based on your destination. With this power, they can make renting a train on the way to Netflix more expensive. It remains to be seen if this can be be implemented and whether Netflix could use mirrors (copy-paste their train station) to circumvent this. 

Why this could be really bad: ISP's are notoriously not competitive in most regional markets. Depending on the verdict, this could give them more staying power.
Why this could be irrelevant: Assuming the cost of traveling on a different set of tracks is not more expensive, economics would suggest that this is an unsustainable practice from a competitive standpoint.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: One (I think) important distinction is that ISPs are not planning to "slow down" certain sites/services, per se. What they are planning to do is use Quality of Service/Class of Service markings on traffic to sites and services they prefer (read - that pay them) to protect that traffic during congestion. 

So, here's an example - I am Verizon or whatever ISP. My customers use Netflix and Hulu. Netflix, however REALLY wants my 100 million subscribers to use their service and is willing to pay me a ton of cash to ensure that connectivity to their service maintains a certain level of performance. Say Hulu is not willing to do that. I haven't "slowed down" Hulu traffic, I have only given Netflix traffic priority through my network to maintain the service level we have agreed upon.

I don't believe this scenario will ever involve the ISP charging the end user, although it is possible I suppose that they may offer "premium service" at the higher rate. The golden ring for the ISPs is to get the content providers to foot the bill.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: If you're feeling ballsy: instead of asking what would happen to users and startups in the case of overturning Net Neutrality, try asking what would happen to the USA as a whole. People tend to forget that the internet doesn't reside in America; when the USA is done chasing out it's intellectuals and emerging business people, all they'll be left with is poverty-stricken middle class and an oligarchy of business vampires that control the politics of the state. And nobody or nothing will be able to save the country and it will mark the end of an empire. Mark my words.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: The net would be like cable. They could charge you more for certain "premium" sites or for sites that they don't want around. Right now it is like by paying one price you get pretty much the whole internet. If the companies get their way the public would end up paying more for the same thing. 

This also means some less popular sites may have less chance to stay afloat because of their inability to generate profits like the more mainstream sites.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: The internet has jumped the shark.  

The new new is already making its way to a synapse near you. 

Soon you'll be thinking your way around the ol' BioGoogle wetwire.  A.K.A.the inner-net.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: A lot of people are comparing this to TV, my question is what would TV be like if it had its own "neutrality law"?
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: We'll just have to make our own Internet, with coke and hookers.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: I'll bridge the gap that people tend to leave open.

What is this "neutrality" in Net Neutrality? It's the **indifference / non-interference** that we expect from Internet Service Providers (ISPs) with regards to what **kind** of data they transmit to/from us.

We already pay for data transmission, and we already pay **more** for **faster** data transmission. Just not what **kind**.

---

I still haven't worked out exactly how someone with this power would use it to make money, but consider this ... contrived scenario:

 >  I subscribe to Comcast's package A, which promises to deliver 4Mbps downstream and 1Mbps upstream connection.  
 >  Scenario 1 (with net neutrality): Comcast lets me do what I want, so I can do the followings:

 >  - download large files at near-3mbps speeds: Maybe a 2GB+ Windows image in a bit more than 1 hour. Note: 2GB / 4Mbps ~= 1.14 hours.
 >  - stream HD movies without stopping to buffer: Maybe a 2GB+ movie that lasts 93 minutes. Note: 2GB per 93 minutes requires a 388KBps = 3.1Mbps internet connection, which is well under our 4Mbps capability.

 >  Now, let's play devil's advocate and try to come up with ways Comcast can charge me more.

 >  1) They can throttle my connection so that neither of those tasks finish as expected. My download takes more than 3 hours and my video stream spends ~100% more time buffering. Since this performance is clearly unacceptable, they'd then offer me a better package at a higher price.  
I don't know whether or not they're already doing this.

 >  2) More discretely, they can throttle your data stream only for types of data that they don't like (for whatever reason). So your download would still finish in a bit more than an hour and you'd still be happy, but your movies won't play satisfactorily. In heroic manners, Comcast comes along and offers you a "video package" that "boosts" your video streaming connection for a "small monthly subscription fee".  
I don't know the legal details, but they may get away with doing this because they actually *do* serve you the subscribed speed of your package (so they technically didn't lie legally when you signed the contract).

 >  3) Things can be a bit more bleak for a small start-up company, as their needs tend to be more "focused". This is wildly speculative, so feel free to ignore it. As a user, you may not die if video streaming is taken away from you; you can still watch cat gifs or play online games. A start-up company tends to serve only one type of service, which likely involves one data type. Take a DRM-free video streaming service for example (we don't care whether this can ever be a legal business). Their lives depend on video streaming. If the only ISP in their area throttle their video data transfer speed, they either pay extra or get screwed.

And then of course they can jump into the service providing game, eliminating competition until they are the primary provider of certain services you depend on. Then charge you cut-throat prices for them.  
I imagine this is what happened to the cable TV. Exclusivity of certain TV shows and hundred-dollar subscriptions.

Eventually, the internet may look like an amusement park. You pay once for the ticket to get into the area, then pay again for everything you do.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: I am a network engineer for an ISP. I sit in big wig meetings and I can tell you that My company can not wait until Net Neutrality is gotten rid of. 

My company's train of thought is this, they are the ones who paid the money for laying out the wiring, it is their network that people use. But services like, facebook, Skype, oovoo, etc are saturating the bandwidth forcing my company to expand and open higher Bandwidth only so these free video services can make money, While the ISP doesn't make enough from its customers. 

This is a major schism of all ISPs. Skype has more bandwidth usage and airtime then any other phone, video conferencing service, and Skype is just raking in money with out having to do any work that ISP does for that connection. 

I'm sure by now it is understood that, when an ISP gives you  50 MB of bandwidth. What they are saying is that it is possible you you to achieve 50 MB download speeds as certain times of the day, when the bandwidth is available. so it not guaranteed 50 MB its Best effort 50MB. 

Lets say 1000 GIG pipe was layed out for a specific neighborhood and all residence buy internet from that company. Even to some people are paying for 50 MB, they will only  be guarenteed 5 MB, so the ISP can put as many customers on that pipe as possible. Evening and night times, you will experience slow speeds because everybody is online after coming home from work. During Mid day, you will experience even higher speeds than 50MB, since not many of the customers are online. 

EDIT: I am only giving an outlook in to the ISPs agenda and reasoning. I am not justifying their actions.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: What is going to happen is that a company like google with tons of money is going to be forced to pay to pay money to ISPs so that internet users can use their sites quickly (a little bit faster than currently).  A website like reddit, in the red, not yet profitable without money to spare won't be able to pay nearly as much as to them.  That means users don't get a high speed connection and everything will load slower.  And new sites just starting out are going to be terrible
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Browse google.  Instead of a colourful search box, you're greeted with: "Hi! This is just a friendly reminder from Verizon.  Did you know what you can use **Bing** to search for things too?  Would you like to search for *horse p0rn* using **Bing** today?  

**Yes** - OK!  
**No** - Please wait 30 seconds and fill out this captcha to continue to google."  
  
Basically, the shit of nightmares.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: I pay for the amount of food I eat, amount of gas I use, etc.  Why shouldn't everyone pay for the amount of bits they use?  Right now, lite users subsidize heavy users (people watching hours of Netflix, etc.

People should pay for what they use, not ride on the backs of low-bandwidth users.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: So, wealth wise, would Google, Facebook, Amazon, etc., decide that this means war and combine forces to buy/create their own ISPs at a much faster pace than Google fiber is being deployed now?
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: What about the people that are not in the US, we shouldn't get punished for the ridiculous shit that America pulls.
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Norwegian redditor here :) Is this something only happening in the US, or is the entire world going under?
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Won't overturning net neutrality laws in the US speed up the technology exodus started by the Snowden leaks?
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Google will start its own internet. They will lay the wires and take over the world
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Is this relevant in a worldwide scale? Will this have any impact on someone in Europe?
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: Google better hurry up with that Google Fiber and deliver us away from evil!
question: If Verizon and the FCC were to overturn Net Neutrality laws, what will REALLY happen? answer: This is where a Death Note would be really handy...
question: Why were Nagasaki and Hiroshima picked to be bombed? answer: What others have said: they were two of the few large cities left not already heavily damaged by conventional bombing. The US wanted to accurately assess the damage of the atomic bomb on an intact city.

Bonus fact #1: Nagasaki got hit because the primary target that day (Kokura, IIRC) was obscured by cloud cover.

Bonus fact #2: Bombing Pearl Harbor required developing a new torpedo (the harbor is very shallow, and in training for the attack the Japanese found the standard torpedo dropped by their torpedo bomber would hit the bottom and get stuck in the mud). The new torpedoes were designed and built by Mitsubishi. At their factory in Nagasaki.
question: Why were Nagasaki and Hiroshima picked to be bombed? answer: The cities chosen as possible targets were all strategically important, with munitions factories, aircraft factories, critical port facilities, and similar infrastructure. Hiroshima was an industrial center with a major military HQ. Nagasaki was a major seaport, but was actually bombed as a secondary target for Kokura, because weather and smoke obscured the primary target.
question: Why were Nagasaki and Hiroshima picked to be bombed? answer: The US bombed most cities but left a select few alone to minimize the resistance there. Japan did notice this pattern of avoidance, but due to embargoes there was a massive shortage of materials, so they didn't commit many resources to defend these locations  Additionally, weather also played a factor: the US wanted to *see* it happen. 

When it was time to deploy the ordinance, the US had a list of cities they had left alone. They chose the cities where the weather was the clearest on that day. 

Fun fact: the US had the capacity to build and drop one nuke a ~~week~~ month, and indeed that was the plan until Japan surrendered. 

Fun fact 2: **Removed after inaccuracy was pointed out regarding Einsteins role**

Fun fact 3: Israel paid some Jews (I'm not racist, I'm pointing out the Jewish nationalism that came to play)  who worked on the Manhattan project a very hefty sum to come to Israel a few years later, bringing their research. They then secretly whored this information out to anyone who would pay for it, including the Russians. Iran got the research, and North Korea bought it from them. China, India, Pakistan, Britain, France, Russia, Australia, Libya, Saudi Arabia and a bunch of others also bought this research from Israel. 

Fun fact 4: Little known fact is that Libya had a nuclear weapons program as well as unrefined nuclear materials (yellowcake). I suspect the recent international invasion of Libya was more about this fact than it was for humanitarian reasons. The reason Libya didn't become a nuclear power is because their education system was so terrible they didn't have the expertise necessary to bring the research to fruition. 

Fun fact 5: 2 days prior to the attack on Pearl Harbor, Japan's ambassador to the US gave President Roosevelt a bunch of "peace charms" despite knowing there was about to be an attack (via intercepted and decrypted diplomatic cables telling him the attack was a "go"). Prior to the bombing, as if to say "Fuck You,"  President Truman personally attached these "peace charms" to the first nuclear weapon dropped on Hiroshima. 

Fun fact 6: Japanese diplomatic cables and naval codes had already been decrypted by the US by the time Pearl Harbor happened, and indeed, an attack was forecasted several hours before, but this report was dismissed by the US Army's high brass as the importance of electronic warfare had not yet been appreciated. 

There were a hell of a lot more nuclear shenanigans that went on after world War 2 than people let on. If you're interested in learning more, try this book, it's an excellent read:

_URL_0_

Edit: posts facts, gets downvoted. Damn.
question: Why were Nagasaki and Hiroshima picked to be bombed? answer: There were three reasons why:

* Hiroshima and Nagasaki were both picked because they had a perfect size of terrain that provided the viable information for damage caused by the atomic bomb. Scientists wanted built-up areas and terrains in order to increase the maximum damage done to enemy targets. Actually, Nagasaki wasn't supposed to be the primary target for the second bomb; originally Kokura was supposed to be the primary target, but the cloud over the city had extremely obscured the pilots' view so the pilot had to divert to the secondary target, Nagasaki, and the rest is history.

* Not only that, Hiroshima and Nagasaki were chosen for military and strategic purposes. Hiroshima was the headquarters of the 2nd General Army and Fifth Division, with 40,000 Japanese military personnel stationed in the city, and Nagasaki was a major industrial center that housed manufacturing facilities and cottage industries producing war materials and other equipment for the Japanese military. The goal in warfare was to reduce the enemy's capacity to produce war materials to the lower level as possible and to show the Japanese that we have the weapon that could destroy a city with a tick of a clock, in order to send a message to the Japanese government that such weapon would basically put the very end to the Japanese culture.

* Last but not least, the goal in warfare was to prevent the invasion of the Japanese mainland that was set to start on November  1, 1945, with millions of American military personnel (going to be supplemented by American forces coming from Europe) tens of thousands of warships, and tens of thousands of military equipment to breakthrough Japan's heavy defenses and take control of entire areas that would have been taken over by the enemy.
question: Why were Nagasaki and Hiroshima picked to be bombed? answer: The one thing that I havnt seen mentioned in other comments is that the main reason those two locations were chosen is because there were no POW camps in the surrounding areas around the blast site.

The Americans knew that simply dropping an atomic bomb on Japanese soil would send the required message to end the war. Therefore the location wasn't entirely all that important, they just wanted to make sure that they wouldn't accidentally hurt any of their own soldiers in the process due to the massive blast radius.
question: Why were Nagasaki and Hiroshima picked to be bombed? answer: Both were large cities with major weapons factories.
question: Why were Nagasaki and Hiroshima picked to be bombed? answer: I know I have no way to prove this to you guys, and no way to prove that I'm not a troll. But a couple of years ago while looking to buy ww2 militaria I got a call from man interested in selling me a photo album from the war, all he told me it was of Germans in Japan. So naturally I was very interested in checking out this album and buying it for a good price if I could. When I went to his house I was greeted by an man in his late eighties (a ww2 veteran himself and the women who took care of him. He showed me an album which he claimed showed the delivery of Germany's nuclear technology to Japan . He claimed he got the album from his cousin once he died, his cousin fought in Europe and he fought in the Pacific. The album showed the crew of German uboat in Japan. Even a picture of that famous mountain in japan from the top of the uboat along with other pictures of the crew with different Japanese soldiers. But there was one picture of particular interest which he showed me. He claimed that the picture was of Karl Doenitz in a Geisha house. While I cannot say with certainty that it was Karl Doentiz for sure I can tell you man had a resemblance as far as I could see. The problem with the photo was is that is was taken from the back profile so you couldn't see a face. He claimed that that photo was proof that this mission was to trasnfer Germany's nuclear technology to Japan, and the reason Nagaski and Hiroshima were bombed was because it was in one of these two cities in which the Japanese had their nuclear bomb being developed. He ended up claiming it was in Nagaski and got destroyed by the bomb. He also said that the Japanese tested one their bombs off the coast of Korea. I'm not sure if this is true but all I can tell you is what he told me and what he showed me.

**Any input on whether this man's story was true would be helpful and also sorry for any spelling or grammar mistakes but im too lazy to fix them
question: Why were Nagasaki and Hiroshima picked to be bombed? answer: I know that one of the reasons they chose them as targets over Tokyo or another major city was because those cities had already been leveled. They wanted to see the power of the the bomb on a still intact city.
question: The differences among astrophysics, astronomy and cosmology answer: Cosmology is the study of the cosmos itself (e.g. the expansion of space, the Big Bang, relativity), and astrophysics is the study of the objects in the cosmos (e.g. how stars work and galaxies form). There's a lot of overlap; for example, the astrophysical problem of how galaxies can rotate so fast without tearing apart introduces the cosmological problem of what dark matter is and how it got here.

Modern astronomy might as well be called "observational astrophysics"; it's about looking at what things in space are doing and figuring out why. An astronomer will generally concern himself with finding data that can test astrophysical/cosmological theories and hypotheses.
question: The differences among astrophysics, astronomy and cosmology answer: As an astrophysics grad student, I would say that astrophysics deals with observing particles from space as they interact with Earth- and space-based detectors (underground laboratories, orbiting satellite detectors, etc). My experiment worked on observing neutrinos emitted by the Sun and measured their interactions with matter along their way to Earth.

Cosmology has more to do with the expansion of the Universe and space as has been mentioned, including studying redshifts of distant galaxies to get a handle on how fast the universe is expanding. These people will typically deal with general relativity a lot.

Astronomy, I'd say, is a bit broader. I think it can encompass any observations of stars, galaxies, supernovas, blackholes, and other phenomena "out there". It can involve making measurements of neutron star and supernova behavior and matching it to theoretical models to figure out the mechanisms behind those phenomena.
question: The differences among astrophysics, astronomy and cosmology answer: Astronomy and astrophysics is used interchangeably among astronomers/astrophysicists. Cosmology deals with the structure and evolution of the universe. Source: minor in Astronomy.
question: The differences among astrophysics, astronomy and cosmology answer: Astronomy is the general term that covers everything outside of the earth's atmosphere.  It covers both the science of stars and galaxies and the technology to measure them.

Astrophysics is the study of how things in space follow the laws of physics to do what they do.

Cosmology is the study of how the universe came to be, and why it is like it is.
question: what's up with all the weighing stations for trucks along interstate highways? What's the purpose? answer: There are legal limits to how heavy a truck may be.  They are also used as safety and compliance inspections.  They used to collect fuel taxes as well but that is not as common these days.
question: what's up with all the weighing stations for trucks along interstate highways? What's the purpose? answer: Trucks carry cargo.  

The more cargo trucks carry, they more efficient they are. But if they carry too much they can damage the road and be unsafe to drive. (really heavy trucks can't slow down, and can blow tires)

It's a really common problem for the companies shipping goods to want to overload the trucks, so these stations make sure they're not overloaded. 

They can also check to make sure the driver has all the proper permits for the load they're carrying, check their log books to make sure they're operating and sleeping at appropriate intervals.  Sometimes they can even do safety inspections on the truck, trailer and load.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Many lesbians feel, right or wrong that straight men still try to hit on them whereas straight women like the fact that gay men do not try to make advances on them.  Obviously this isn't true for all men and women, men have platonic female friends all the time and women hit on gay men all the time too.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: One of the better friendships I've had in years was/is with a lesbian. There's an unspoken understanding that there is really no need to impress each other and no possibility of sexual tension that can creep up in many hetero friendships, like it or not. Probably one of the few people I've ever felt comfortable around .
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I liked hanging out with my lesbian friend because she liked to have sex with me. That's how I found out I was also a lesbian.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I think Mitch and Cam can explain this in the simplest way possible:
_URL_0_
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: This does not at all match my experience. As a straight guy, i love hanging out with lesbians. Its like having a buddy, but with boobs.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: When I (straight guy) first turned 21 I had an older Lesbian friend that would take me out drinking all the time, which led to making more lesbian friends.  I understand what OP is saying but that has definitely not been my experience.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Straight dude here - in my late 20s, one of my best friends was a self-described "gold star" lesbian - had never kissed or slept with a boy. We were inseperable until I broke up with a woman who I met and dated while she and I were friends.  After I broke up with this woman, my friend straight cut me off, and I found out later she "sided" with this woman in our breakup and also had a huge crush on her the whole time. 

When I looked back on it, there was a surprising amount of sexual competition even when I was single and we would hang out at bars together.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Gay guy here. On gay men - straight women friendship:

1. Women always are completely non-sexual to gay men. Just like the completely non-sexual friend for straight men would be other men, and straight men tend to have other men as friends. Likewise women can be relaxed with gay men, as gay men are not hitting on women. They don't really want anything sexual or romantic from each other. Both know this, and that's the reason they can talk about things like relationships, sex and so on without it being awkward for both. For many gay men, it could be somewhat awkward to talk about gay sex to straight men as gays know straight men could feel uncomfortable with the subject.

2. Gender non-conformity is more common among gay men than in straight men. So fabulous fashionable platinum gays might more easily relate to women and their interests than straight guys do. (I underline that there's nothing wrong being a fabulous fashionable platinum gay). 

3. There are tons of gay men who have very few women as friends. Some gay men can be even sexist and look down on women, as women are completely irrelevant to their life. It is quite surprising that some gay men can be very sexist towards women.

I don't know about lesbians though.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: What about bi men and bi women ?
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I know a lot of lesbians and have pretty much seen the opposite to what you describe. I have a lot of gay girl friends, and as a guy, I think a lot of them quite enjoy some of the more laddish behaviour that they don't get in a group of girls. Even if they're tomboyish or more 'girly'.

Maybe it's a generational thing, still. I live in what could be described as a hotbed of gayness, so you've got your first generation of enlightened 20-somethings who truly feel unafraid and accepted. 

Older lesbians were shunned by society in different nuanced ways than gay males were. Whereas there seemed genuine hatred and shaming of gay men, there was more confusion and isolation for women coming out. Anger yes, but a different brand of it. 

I think there's an iffy implication sometimes that a preference for women indicates that they want very little to with men. Anecdotally, I've found that to be totally false, and that there are other good reasons why lesbians would tend to stay out of someone's way that are less complicated than having a negative relationship with the male gender.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: That's not true in my experience at least. I hang out with everyone. I would rather talk to/hangout with a straight man over a bubbly girly-girl any day. All of my lesbian friends are like this. Not sure where the uptight lesbian thing comes from and if there's any truth to it. 

Only two things annoy me:

1. If they hit on me knowing I am obviously not interested.

2. When they talk to me about sex and women. I am not a very sexual person so I don't care for talking about it and it seems like there's this misconception that if you like women then you must like talking about sex with women.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I'm a lesbian, mid 20s -
I have only a few close straight cis guy friends, and in my experience this is because I come out quite early on when meeting an acquaintance, and then guys treat me differently. They either 1. Treat me like a 'bro', someone to objectify women with them - "Check out pink dress's ass. Damn so fine." Me: "Uh, her name is Sally, why don't you say hi?" Or 2. Ask me weird invasive questions about my sex life before we've even gotten to know each other well. There's also the creepy third level where they try to "get in" on bedroom action.

Also, your typical dude can often say something a little bit sexist, sometimes not meaning to be malicious. My straight female friends sometimes put up with this (if it's not too bad) because they don't want to be seen as unfuckable, whereas I have nothing to lose so I can call them out on their bullshit, making them less likely to want to be my BFFL.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: in my experience, straight men (me) get along with lesbians better than the gay men seem to get along with them.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Well, I'm a straight male, and I have a lesbian friend, 2 bisexual female friends, 1 gay male friends, and 3 bisexual male friends.  I don't even live in a big city and I don't 'go clubbing'.  Mostly we get high and play video games.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I have to say, I have both gay and lesbian friends.  I don't really understand exactly what you're trying to say here.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Because that is a stereotype, and it isn't necessarily true. I bet that a lot of lesbians have guy friends.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I am a straight guy who has lesbian friends. In the way that some men do not hang out with women, some women just don't hang out with men.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Have you meet straight men? We are terrible. No wonder why both groups avoid them.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: One of my good friends is a lesbian. She and her wife, and I and mine like to go out to dinner and drinks because we're all into the same shows and books and stuff. 

At least a few times, while we were out, some brah would try and get my attention and give me a huge thumbs-up, or something else shitty like that. 

We've gone out a fair amount of times, and been in the company of hundreds of men (cumulatively), and only a handful have been jackasses like that. Most of them, like everyone else, just want to do what they're out to do, and disregard the "background people." However, it's *always* the jackasses that make sure they catch my attention. 

For me, it builds an analogy that I think answers your question. Lesbians pass by tons of men all the time that they have no reason to interact with (background people), and most of them (the background men) feel the same way. 

Every once in a while, they meet a person who they share interests with, and is male, and is not a douche, and they become friends. But far more often the men that they interact with are just background people who jump into the foreground to give unwanted sexual advances, because two lades doing it is very attractive to (a lot of the) men (that I've met) and the brahs don't have the impulse control to see something that sexually excites them and not jump on it. 

Anyway, I'm a guy, so take it with a grain of salt. I don't feel qualified to speak on behalf of lesbians, this the just the perception that I got from "riding shotgun."
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: This is clearly anecdotal, but I'm straight and my best friend is a Lesbian. We like beer, dogs, shooting, and fire. I like hanging out with her more than the gay dudes I know. The gay dudes I know are cool, but not "will help you move a couch" type bros.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: This isn't true for me at all. I'm a lesbian in my twenties who loves hockey, video games, board games and comic books so even at a very young age I gravitated towards the other people enjoying those things, and that was usually the boys. I have of course encountered straight men who want to turn me, or are generally rude. However, for the most part the straight men that I've met have been fine, and my core friend group is awesome about it and always has been. When I was in my awkward coming out stage a guy in my group asked me out and I turned him down and we talked about why and he was so supportive of my confused feelings at the time and it was never an issue again. He's now married to a lovely woman and I am at his house every Friday for our board game group. 

I have more straight male friends than I do female friends of any orientation. But its never really something I've thought about. I make friends with human beings I find awesome and I don't exclude people based on their gender. Just because one or two straight guys I've tried to be friends with have been jerks, doesn't mean they all are.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: From a tribal/early human standpoint I think it makes sense that way. (not saying this is the way it has to be or that we ought to seek out relationships that mirror early humans)

The gay men you're talking about might not want to go out and hunt/pillage so they stay home and help with the babies and the housekeeping and one article I read suggested they could stay behind to protect the womenfolk from hostile invaders while the other men go out and hunt. it's mutually beneficial for the gay men and women of the tribe to form a bond. 

Lesbians aren't as strong as men typically so having them go out on hunting/raiding parties isn't really as mutually beneficial. They can, however stay home to help the women. Also, I think in this type of scenario the lesbian would still be paired off with a male and impregnated because her contribution as a childbearer is still important where a gay man can forgo his duty to inseminate while the more virile males get a chance. 

not saying that's how it has to be, but it might be a natural reason for the way we tend to form bonds in that manner.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I'm a lesbian with a lot of straight male friends, actually. I think we have a lot in common and I tend to get along better with guys anyway. This has actually been the case with the majority of lesbians I'm friends with, with some exceptions of course. 

I love that guys aren't dramatic and the ones who are on that friend level with me aren't the type of guy to come on to me constantly, like the straight guys described in this thread a lot. We can just sit back with some Jack and discuss sports/ladies/the weather.

I do find, oddly, that gay men and gay women don't tend to mix.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I know this is anecdotal, but I am a straight guy who is actually really great friends with quite a few lesbians because we have so many shared interests, which is why I would imagine straight women and gay men get along. 
I honestly don't view them as very different than hanging with some of my straight male friends. We talk about almost all of the same things and the dynamics are really similar. 
I think it mostly has to do with the higher population of open gay and lesbian people in my town and the face that you really can't have a social life here without getting to know them.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I'm a straight male and I've hung out with plenty of gay men and lesbians at all different kinds of bars.  I think that the question by the OP is a perceived stereotype.

As for other's experiences.  I can't speak for them, but in my experience, I've definitely seen some douchebags that don't understand boundaries or how to be polite to others, and I've seen some very militant feminist types that actively avoid the opposite sex when out at social gatherings, but both groups are usually the minority (and generally not much fun to hang out with anyway.)
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I definitely don't feel this statement is true for me. I'm a lesbian and have a bunch of straight male friends. Want to watch sports? Check, they'll watch the game with me. Want to be my wingman? Check, they'll come have a drink with me. Want to talk about work? Check, they show up and shoot the shit.  Want to talk about your girlfriend problems? Check, they'll bounce ideas off me. 

I'm not trying to sleep with them and they're not trying to sleep with me. They're friends with no intentions other than to be just friends.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I've had the opposite experience. As a heterosexual guy in a relationship with a girl who has TONS of lesbian friends, I've gotten along great with all of them because this particular group of lesbian girls love sports, video games and tons of other stuff that are generally of a heterosexual male's interest. I love when we talk about what we find attractive in women and sexual interests because they are basically the same conversations I'd have with male friends.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: What?  My three friends who are lesbian have equal amounts of straight friends from both sexes.

My gay friend has two best friends- one male, one female, both hetero.

And of course, there's me:  hetero with an equal number of gay friends to straight friends (who are close friends to me) but on a scale of normal gay/straight ratio, I have way more hetero friends of mostly males.  I'm female.  

I guess the point is, I hate bitches.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Three of my closest friends are Lesbians. I've known one since the age of 2, the others are more recent friends. 

Our friendship is simple and doesn't deal too much with sexual issues and that's possibly why. I don't care who they love as long as it makes them happy. I treated them the same before they came out to me. It possibly helps that we are all in our 40's.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: If they are truly gay men, they don't want to have sex with straight women.  Straight men still want to have sex with lesbian women.  Straight women consider gay men as "safe" or "friend zone", where straight men don't have categories like women do.  If they are a woman then the primal urge to reproduce with lesbian women is the same as with straight women.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I'm actually not sure this is even true. I know gay guys with straight women friends, and I know lesbians with straight men friends.  Do you have stats to back up your claim?
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: have you seen the way straight men tend to act towards lesbians?
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Had a bisexual ex-girlfriend some years ago, we tried dating, it didn't work, as we were both young and wanting to do the "single and mingle" kind of thing, but we were still really good friends, and still are, and often hung with her lesbian/bisexual girl friends also.    

    
I didn't care for some of them because they always had to act tough and 'prove they could hang with the boys'. They usually wore skate-shoes and hoodies. One of them found out I used to be in wrestling in High School, so she demanded I wrestle her. Didn't want to do it, but after an hour of harassment, I gave in. I planned on taking it easy obviously, but she straight up speared me into my table, it hurt, a lot. So I got pissed, and put her in a chokehold. I felt bad right after, asked if she was alright, she was, but the was the last time I saw her.    
    
The "lipstick" lesbian types always tried to "one-up" me when it came to getting girls. If I picked up a girl that night, it was often that I'd hear stuff like, "I could have gotten her, but I figure I'd let you take her." or "My girl was way hotter than yours."    
    
Then there's the other type, the, at some sort of music festival every weekend, flowers in the hair, sundress types, "Men don't know the struggle of women" and "If I was a man, I'd be a millionaire", "Men wouldn't be able to handle having periods" blah blah blah.    
    
**TL:DR**: As someone who's hung out with TONS of bi/lesbian women, to answer your question, they probably don't like hanging with us because they see us competition or something.. That'd be my guess.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Straight man here. Best friends with a hot lesbian.

It is hard for men to be friends with a woman, especially an attractive one, You hang out with them because you like their personality, they make you laugh, they make you smile and generally life up your mood. Just like any friend, male or female would.

But we are instinctively looking for a mate, and naturally the fact that this friend is a woman triggers your natural straight desires for something more. Women know this, and know that if you are single, and they initiated some sort of sexy time, then the guy would probably go along with it. Lesbians are no different, but they probably feel the same about them being with you as you being with another guy. The only word I can describe that is a bit repulsed. Obviously I have no problem men being with other men but that's their business not mine.

If a guy can get past the initial desires of wanting to date that hot lesbian and her hot lesbian lover, then you can be really good friends. They pay for their half of a meal, they talk more about normal boy things, and you can both talk about the smoking woman with a nice ass that just walked past both of you without feeling liker a perv.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: As a lesbian/gay woman, whilst I have a couple of 'straight male' friends, mostly I would say my experience around other straight men (I will not say *all* men, but quite a few), is that my gayness is seen as challenge to them. It's a challenge for their masculinity that there is a women they will remain immune to their *charm* and pressure to conform to the sexual role that women fill in their lives.

In a social setting, where I just want to chill, talk about how things are with my girlfriend, and have a giggle... I do not want to have to endure the questions of straight male peers who will try and insist upon me that I "*haven't found the right guy*, or that I "*don't know what I'm missing*. Nor do I, want to have to remain constantly vigilant about how this passively stating this opinion could easily become something a lot more sinister. 

As someone said in one of the comments below "*Its like having a buddy, but with boobs*", this is just another example of how often some men turn the existence of a woman into sexual entertainment, even when that woman has explicitly made them aware of no returned desire or attraction. It's uncomfortable and is not the basis of an equal friendship.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: This is just a very generalized and unfair question. I used to ID as a lesbian and most of my guy friends were gay. I obviously liked them for other reasons, but our initial meeting was usually around a gay related even or bond. Gay people like to flock together at times because we share the same initial bond that straight people don't have. I love my straight girl friends but sometimes it's nice to talk to a gay lady friend who understands my feelings. Now most of my friends are straight guys because sexuality literally doesn't mean shit to me and I have found that guys in general fit my personality more. Back to my first point though, when I was heavily involved in the gay community, there were a lot of women at our events....most of whom were straight. In my experience, the women have tended to seek out gay friends than guys. Not sure how true this part is, but I've heard many gay men complain about women treating them like "one of the girls" and my guy friends just don't care about my sexuality. I get along better with guys. We don't hit on girls together or anything. I'm a very feminine girl but with a more masculine attitude
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Making the argument that lesbian women don't hang out with straight men because they don't want someone to be hitting on them is totally reasonable, but that doesn't explain why many lesbians are averse to hanging out with gay men.

IMO, female sexuality is less physical than male sexuality, in general.  A lot of women tend to have less emphasis on the physical nature of the relationship and a lot more on the emotional and stability aspects of romantic relationships.  In my experience the lesbians who are most hostile to men, are the ugly ones, i.e. the ones who have very few positive male interactions.  Some of it is a reaction to men treating them like shit, some of it is men just not giving them the attention they want, so they seek it elsewhere, and over time, some of them stereotype and villainize men.  And I'm sorry, it's almost a purely physical aversion.  There's plenty of masculinity within lesbian circles that would not be tolerated if it came from a man.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: That's not been my experience.  Here it is: 

Dated a girl in hs, later in our early 20s she comes out of the closet.  At this point she's living in a different city than I, and I eventually move there in my mid 20s.  Meet all of her friends.  Go to a local lesbian bar with them and certainly do get those "come near me I'll cut your balls off" stares, but usually anyone I'm introduced to is very nice.  That all happened about 6 years ago.  I moved away but still keep in touch with everybody and they're always the people I see when I visit.  

Obviously everybody's experience is going to be different.  If you're a good guy any lesbian will be your friend.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Straight Male here, the street I live on has 3 lesbian couples, one is a Registered Nurse, Another is a handy jack of all trades, has a nice garage with all kinds of tools, the other one across the street is a welder and her partner is also a nurse. The couple next door is bar tender and locksmith. We all get together, drink alcohol and work on cars and eat good food. Some of the coolest women I know. Butch lesbians tend to like me for some reason...maybe I give off a non judgmental vibe? I am not very macho, just your typical white collar office IT guy.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: My best female friend is a lesbian.  I'm a straight male.  She's one of my friend's sisters.  I hit on her for two years in a row,  hard,  and she never fell for it.  Then she told me and it all made sense.  I hit on her cause I like vagina,  I'm friends with her because she's a great person.  I don't hit on her anymore.  But I can see why lesbians don't generally hang out with straight men,  we hit on anything with two legs and a vagina.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: In my experience gay men have more female friends when they are younger and  get more male friends when they are older. Imo it's part they become more comfortable around straight dudes and straight dudes become more comfortable around gay dudes. Before i met my first guy friend i had so many strange "facts" about gays in my head, thought everyone of them looks and talks like a fag and then i met this dude who is "normal" just like me
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: While in the military I had a few women come out to me as gay. At the time don't ask don't tell was still in effect. I think the reason that they came out to me was because... Get this... I treated them like people before any particular gender. Grated the military is mostly male and they had to find someone that would to have any kind of social life. By and large after it was said, sexuality wasnt discussed.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: The trend may also not be as strong as one gets the impression of from TV show tropes. I don't know if anyone have numbers on this?

Data point: Being a straight male with somewhere between 3 and 12 lesbian friends (depending on how often you must hang out to be defined as friends, as well as where on exactly how gay the woman in question must be to count for the friendship to count).
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: They do.

Maybe instead of asking a blanket question to the internet, you should ask this question specifically to the man or woman who's behaviour you seem to be basing it off of. They probably have personal reasons for hanging out with who they choose to hang out with.

The most likely reason? Because those are their friends.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: SO for me at least, i tell a straight guy I am gay and he'll react with: "Thats hot, want a third?" Yes i have guy friends who dont care, but to hang out with a random straight guy that i havent known for a long time?  I dont want to put up with stupid-ass comments.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Am i the only one that thinks this statement has absolutely no truth to it? As a lesbian, I daresay that the majority of my friends are straight men. Also, all the lesbians I know have a lot of straight men as friends.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Because television shows say so.

Lesbian characters don't often hang out with straight men on TV shows, so most people assume they don't in real life. Whether or not they actually do I have no idea since I am not a homosexual woman.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: Cause straight dudes can't look at a lesbian women and see a "dude", they still see a women and often are still attracted to them.   Being attracted to your friend or having your friend attracted to you is awkward.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: One of my best friends is a lesbian. We enjoy many similar interests like sports, pretty women, bikes and all kinds of stuff. Though many do have men issues due to abuse I've found.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I have two friends. One male, one female. The female is gay, but still enjoys spending time with me. So... Quite frankly, I don't know.
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: In my experience it's because hardcore lesbians think of other men as competition and are very standoffish for no real reason
question: why are gay men often friends with straight women but lesbians generally do not hang out with straight men? answer: I have a great friend who is a Lesbian and I'm a Married Straight dude. What are you talking about?
question: - Is it safe to assume, as we haven't encountered any time travellers, that humans will never achieve time travel?Or is it proven to be impossible anyway?  answer: I've seen it suggested that if we invent time travel, we'll only be able to travel back as far as its invention. Like the time-travel device would act as a sort of receiver.
question: - Is it safe to assume, as we haven't encountered any time travellers, that humans will never achieve time travel?Or is it proven to be impossible anyway?  answer: One explanation that has been given for this is that something is needed to connect the two ends of a timeline. Much like tollbooths connect the entrance and exit of a tool road.
question: - Is it safe to assume, as we haven't encountered any time travellers, that humans will never achieve time travel?Or is it proven to be impossible anyway?  answer: We are not currently aware of any way to make it happen, but that sort of statement always comes with the asterisk "...unless our current understanding is incorrect". In fact, we know that some aspects of our current understanding are wrong, we just don't know how to fix them yet.

The lack of evidence for someone traveling back to the current time is often cited as evidence against it being possible, however.
question: - Is it safe to assume, as we haven't encountered any time travellers, that humans will never achieve time travel?Or is it proven to be impossible anyway?  answer: As far as we know, it's not possible to travel backwards in time. 

Also, if you were a time traveler, would you come back to 2014? It's pretty shitty and not that exciting compared to other times.
question: - Is it safe to assume, as we haven't encountered any time travellers, that humans will never achieve time travel?Or is it proven to be impossible anyway?  answer: What if people in the future discover time travel, but they make a law banning traveling to the past? I don't think it's safe to assume that humans will never achieve time travel just because we haven't met any yet.
question: - Is it safe to assume, as we haven't encountered any time travellers, that humans will never achieve time travel?Or is it proven to be impossible anyway?  answer: Depending on the interpretation of the universe (especially quantum mechanics) the explantion could also be that there are time travellers but they are travelling into new universes. Therefore the timelines can never interact with each other.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: Because it isn't as interesting, their is no "evil" side to really point at, and all the people that fought in it were mostly dead by the time most of us were born. Granted it had a greater effect on the world than WW2 did, but it's just not that interesting to talk about.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: It depends on the country, I guess. It was quite big and in the news here in Belgium, now that a hundred years have passed.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: The honest to god main reason is that... well America essentially did nothing for the whole war so, most history being Amero-centric tends to gloss over the war. Though, as an Australian WW1 formed a massive part of our national identity so we do learn a great deal about "The war to end all wars."
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: I have no idea if you've done it on purpose, but you've actually posted this on the ANZAC day in New Zealand and Australia, which, this year, is the 100th anniversary of the ANZAC troops landing at Gallipoli in WWI. So it's talked about a bit here in New Zealand but I think mostly because, since Gallipoli was a horrendous failure, New Zealand has mostly stayed out of warfare since.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: I would say that it's hard to frame WWI in a way that's anything but bleak and useless. World War II at least was able to be framed in some sense as a right versus wrong kind of conflict if you look solely at the Allied Powers defeating the Nazis. That's a gross oversimplification of the nature of the conflicts and powers involved, but a way that a lot of people look at it nevertheless.

World War I was best described by a political science professor of mine long ago when he said that it was perhaps the single best moment where man developed technology to kill without fully being aware of its ramifications or adapting military strategy in the face of it. People commanded to charge a position were usually sprayed down by machinegun fire, chemical weapons were used en masse, and disease killed off incomprehensible numbers of people. Casualties continued to mount as no leader wanted to cede ground and be the person to go back home and say, "All of those millions of young boys that were killed? We're not really sure what that was all for."

In any case, the motivation for a lot of that bloodshed came from nationalist chest-puffing, which doesn't make for a great story at the end of the day. Usually fiction in the English speaking world tends to center around a person standing up and making a difference, and World War I isn't a particularly strong case study of a time when any one soldier or leader could make a significant impact on the micro or macro-level challenges that affected them. 

My take on answering the question, anyway.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: Because soldiers huddling in trenches with pee soaked clothes over their faces to die from poison gas slower just isn't as appealing
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: Outside of Hollywood and American higschools, WWI and WWII actually are discussed equally. I assume this is because the U.S. wasn't really involved, whereas European and Commonwealth countries sacrificed a lot of young men .
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: I can confidently say that WWI is extremely important to the national identity and well taught in Australia. It is currently the hundredth anniversary to the day of the landing of Gallipoli, which most Australians consider to be the most major event in our nation's history.
Presumably the reason that it is skimmed over in the USA is because they never really got involved much, and instead stockpiled weapons for the inevitable follow-up war to come.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: Besides some of the other answers here (clearer "good vs evil" dynamic, etc), it's also worth mentioning that in the US, the baby boomers (who were the ones creating and funding popular media for many decades) grew up in the shadow of WW2, hearing stories from older relatives.

 WW2 has had a lot more "fans" nostalgic for the "simplicity" of that era's good vs evil dynamic and the heroism their older relatives and neighbors displayed / talked about. This coincided well with the rise of modern media (and was just plain more recent).
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: A big part is the story created by the entertainment media. The cliche of the Nazis being the 'personification of evil' makes it easy to create the 'good vs. evil' idea, whereas the blame for WWI is still being debated today.

Similarly, the Western Europe theatre in WWII the most famous in America, even though the US was more involved in the Pacific for most of the war - its a more morally complex conflict.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: This might not be absolutely true, but WW1 is depressing compared to WW2.  Its a war that could be considered pointless, caused an incredible amount of deaths due to technology vastly outpacing tactics, could be considered the cause of every major conflict since its end and no clear group to blame it on.  WW2 is sexy.  It has underdog stories, a group that is historically seen as some of the most evil people in the history of Humans, the most terrible weapon ever used against humans, and unique looking battles that aren't sit in a trench until some officer orders grunts to charge into machine guns.

This is my personal opinion of the matter.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: In my opinion they are all one war with the treaty of Versailles causing a short hiatus. WWII started primarily as a result of Britain and Frances unwillingness to enforce the treaty, giving Hitler the time he needed to build an army in secret.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: WW2 much more controversial. Systematic genocide, almost nuclear holocaust, actual holocaust, insane mustaches
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: During WW2 fighting took place on 6 of the 7 continents (no fighting took place on Antarctica) while during WW1 fighting was mostly in Europe with it extending a bit into the Middle East and in some of their colonial empires in Africa. Hence why prior to WW2, WW1 was referred to as "Europe's Great War" because the vast majority of fighting took place on Europe and mostly between European countries with the exceptions of the Ottoman empire (which did extend into part of Europe), the United States, and Japan. The last 2 of which didn't join the war until it was almost over.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: I think, because it's not as sexy. Boys charging at each other getting mowed down by a machine gun over and over to fight over a trench isn't all that great for films/stories. 

WW2 however, with bombing runs, insurgents (like under cover attacks), airborne infantry, more effective tanks, heroes returning home, the Nazis (pretty cool super villain if they were fictional) and the bravado the Americans brought to WW2. 

That's just some of my ideas.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: Everything since WWII is hard to sell.   WWII is an event that Americans love to see portrayed, because they paint it black  &  white.  (hey, look how evil the bad guy was).  World War I gets overshadowed by this portrayal of heroes conquering evil,  which cannot be said about anything Cold War onwards.   Cuba.. imperialism.  Vietnam... imperialism.  Middle East... imperialism.  World.. Imperialism.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: probably because students would realize what massive cunts the allied powers ended up being towards Germany when it ended
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: From a US perspective, we were only in WW I for ~18 months.

From an international perspective, WW II started before the appalling shock and horror of what WW I was could be digested by the participants. In modern parlance, there wasn't enough time after WW I and before WW II for any social and emotional closure. And it all got pushed aside for WW II.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: I'd say it's simply because WWII was more recent and therefore has a more direct impact on modern life. What's most important is always what's most immediate.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: WW1 is talked about and taught quite a lot in the UK and Ireland, however over the past couple of years the hype has grown due to the 100 year anniversary. Because of this people are starting to uncover more about the great war, as back in those days the men came home and got on with life rather than talking about it. More soldiers stories are coming forward from relatives over the generations that were lucky enough to have stories told to them. 

Adolf Hitler was a young Lance corporal (or German equivalent) in WW1, he was wounded in the leg iirc. 

WW1 refined war, from the use of automatic weapons to tanks and gas. For every step those advancements made, the countermeasures advanced. For example early gas masks or "pee hoods" as they were known, the clue is in the name for the ammonia in urine to counteract the gas. Then became more advanced with filtration systems much like today's. However using blue asbestos in them probably killed just as many soliders in the long run. 

Over 2 million horses lost their lives during WW1, many of which were never brought back home due to import laws so were sold to farms for slaughter. 

I've recently became involved in a charitable WW1/WW2 living history museum. There isn't a day goes past In there that there isn't someone in with new notes, letters and artifacts to donate to us. Bringing with it more information, it's 02:00 at the minute here and I've to be up shortly to do an exhibition for some scouts and I've a million things on my mind. If there's anything in particular about WW1 you want to know, please ask and I will answer (or I'll get the answer from our resident researchers) 

Also, ANZAC day is approaching, 100 years ago British and commonwealth forces prepared to land on Gallipoli. Around 25000 British soliders died, around 7500 Australian soliders died 2300 new Zealanders and over 1000 Indian soliders. All of which are buried/commemorated in Turkey. Spare a thought.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: [ANZAC Day](_URL_0_) is today. The history of ww1 is quite important here in New Zealand and in Australia. 

Aside from that the scale of ww1 is no where near that of ww2, also ww2 was widely reported on in almost real time with loads of visual imagers/footage. There is simply just so much more information about it.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: Nazi's are the greatest villains of all time. Of course people are going to be interested in that.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: Because just like Star Wars proved, the sequel is always better.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: It isn't talked about as much because you can't construct an oversimplified, 'good vs evil' narrative as with WWII. The popular conception of the war as this epic failure that did nothing is, I'm sorry to say, too strong to overcome. 

No matter how hard you try to demonstrate that the July Crisis wasn't a jumbled mess but actually a collection of decisions taken by individuals that led to a war, people will always go with Lloyd-George's 'slither into war'. 

No matter how much info you can bring up, that shows that the Generals were IN FACT human beings who made mistakes, but ultimately did the best they could, and became great innovators, people will always go for Alan Clark's 'Lions led by Donkeys'. Men like Frank Maxwell and Louis James Lipsett, among the 78 British Generals who were KIA in WWI, will always be lumped together as repugnant, doltish human beings, as unjust and unfair as that is.

No matter how hard you try to examine the writings and experiences of soldiers and civilians, and demonstrate that a lot of them actually believed in their cause, or felt their sacrifices were worth something in the end, and were more informed than we give them credit, people will always insist that everyone in 1914 was 'war crazy' and thought it was 'one big game'; that people BACK THEN were idiots, not like us enlightened ones today! *insertsarcasmhere*

No matter how hard you examine the Allies and Central Powers, and try to show that they were fighting for things of consequence, and that, IMO, the world was in fact VERY FORTUNATE that the Allies defeated the Central Powers, people like Peter Jackson will continue to insist that because there was 'no Hitler' and 'no Holocaust' to stop, no one 'at any point was fighting for anything that mattered'.

If anything, I blame the Second World War. It is impossible to look at WWI without the distorting lens of WWII, impossible to discuss the 'Inter-war' period without calling it THAT, assuming that a second war was around the corner inevitably.

TL;DR: People don't seem to actually give a shit about trying to understand the war, since EVERYONE knows what the war *'was really about'*. 

The First World War has become so laden with baggage and bulls**t it's one hell of a job to try and claw it all away. Doesn't mean that Historians (and people like me!) won't continue to do so, it just means that it's best to leave your pre-conceived assumptions at the door when tackling something as fascinating, gut-wrenching and WORLD DEFINING as the First World War.

*rant over*
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: No one was prepared for what WW1 really would be. This was still during a time where there was an official ruling class of people. These people who would slap on uniform with no experience and no understanding of war apart from what they had read in history books, to them war was glorious and romantic. They charged into wars for completely arbitrary and utterly ridiculous reasons without understanding what the rate of advancement in technology had in store for them. 

Their notion of the rules of war were so distorted that they lead millions of men into a meat grinder out of sheer stubbornness. The amount of spectacular failures that happened in WW1 were numerous, the battle that is commemorated today as ANZAC day being just one example. No one was prepared for this new battlefield where a years worth of soldiers could be killed in one day.

Just imagine you are in the shoes of a man leading a 'surprise attack' and one day metal bird would fly over the sky taking pictures of your army and you'd suddenly run into a enemy that is prepared for you, all that planning and training for that moment becomes useless in an instant. A month later another metal bird flies over your head and this time it drops a bomb on your face, how do you come to terms with this new reality? 

People marched into WW1 expecting honor and glory but war had evolved into something much more sinister and by the time all the brave men were long dead people came out of it with only sorrow and horror of what it had become. The gloves were finally off and we opened the box of modern warfare.

It was an utter embarrassment for everybody invovled. No one knew how to respond it. Some tried to cover it up, others tried to glorify their embarrassments but one thing that was certain was that the social ruling power structure that had been in place for thousands of years came crumbling down. No one would march under the foolishness of such incompetent leaders again simply because they were born into it.

WW1 was the war that setup everything to come, from then on monarchy truly died and new forms of government emerged. In a way it was probably even more significant than WW2, however what the WW1 did in killing off what was left of the honorable man before showing the fangs of the wicked one, WW2 took to the extreme.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: I think WWI gets less attention for a number of reasons.  
First off, it was a complicated war.  The run-up to war was complicated, and the fighting didn't have any moral redemption involved.  It was a slaughter.  WWII was pretty cut and dried, in terms of who the Good Guys were, and who the Bad Guys were.  WWII had the mass extermination of several peoples, the liberation of those people, and charismatic leaders on all sides.   
WWI had a VERY long period of stalemate, which was a meat grinder for men.  WWII had massive drives, long marches, and much more "sexy" technology.  
Third, the amount of film of WWII is greater than WWI by orders of magnitude.  It's really cheap to make a show based on archived footage that is freely available.  It's a lot more expensive when you have to actually recreate period sets.  
Fourth, WWI was a war concentrated near the front lines.  There were SOME bombing raids by the zeppelins in England, there were some shells lobbed by the Paris Gun, but for the most part, the fighting took place at the front.  And, even then, the front didn't go anywhere for three years.  In WWII, the fronts ranged from the Pyrenees to Moscow in the West, and Hawaii to Burma in the East.  Everyone in that area was affected directly.  
And, related to the first point, there were no heroic leaders of WWI.  When the strategy is to bleed/starve the other side, there's nothing really to root for.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: Becasue it fundamentally changed the world. 

There are a lot of really off-point responses here. The short reason why WWII is talked about all the time is because it created a new world order and WWI didn't cause as much change. When I say new world order I mean the balance of power throughout the world. World Bank, IMF, UN, The Cold War, and dozens of important organizations were created during the aftermath of the war. Also, something the people are touching upon, is that it was, in some ways, a clash of ideologies and firmly established liberal democracies. Also Decolonization was a direct effect of Europe getting trashed. Basically, WWII and its effects are massively more important than WWI. (plenty of wars were clashes of ideologies etc. but none are talked about at much as WWII because thy didn't change the entire world)
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: A number of reasons but primarily there was no clear *causa belli* for the war's scope (even today, academics are debating the true cause of the war). Once the war got going, it pretty much fed its own existence, with everyone pouring more into winning because the prospect of losing after already having invested so much was politically unfeasible.

There also wasn't a clear winner. Oh sure, there was a treaty that assigned blame, but even while the Allies could claim victory, the Central Powers won the war in just about every metric of counting - from casualties to territories.

At the end of the day, the complex hodge-podge of interrelating and confounding paradoxes lack a moral or narrative thread that makes the war hard to understand, hard to discuss and hard to talk about.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: I think it's because it's harder to personify.  WWII was a story of good vs. evil, with a clear good side and a bad side.  WWI on the other hand, was just a massive blunder of diplomacy on all levels.  There wasn't really that much of a bad side, nor a good one, just a web of offensive and defensive pacts sprung into effect over a single assassination.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: If I'd labeled something "the war to end all wars" and then had it go right into WWII, I probably wouldn't talk much about it either.

But really WWII forged the modern geopolitical landscape and so has continued to be relevant in ways that WWI has not.
question: Why isn't World War I talked about as much as World War II? answer: It depends on the teacher, too. I'm currently rolling out a WWI unit that is more in-depth than my WWII stuff.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: The headache is dehydration. Think about it, you haven't had anything to  drink for 10 hours, you'd never do that during the day.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: How refreshed you feel depends largely on your sleep cycles, because your brain goes through different levels of activity throughout the night. 8 hours may wake you up at the perfect time, whereas 10 means you're waking up in the middle of a cycle.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: I've got a followup:  Whenever I wake up before 9-10 AM, I sometimes wake up with severe stomach cramps.  I'm not hungry (and attempts to eat make me feel even worse), and if I wake up at 11-12 or later, I never get these cramps.

Why is this?
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: Headache is always dehydration. During your sleep you loose a lot of water. 
Actually people sleep in 1.5 hour cycles, so maybe 10.5 may feel better than 10. (remember it takes a little to fall asleep) Plan for 4.5-6-7.5 hour sleep. After you get used to that just remove alarm altogether, and do things as soon as you wake up, wash your face, eat something, open your windows, whatever. All of this does not work if you go to bed drunk or high.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: If you are addicted to coffee, tea or other drugs that cause a headache when deprived, that's an additional factor. If you usually drink a lot of tea, for example, you will see that the headache can last for hours after waking up, even if you drink water and remove all other factors that have been mentioned as a cause for morning headaches. It will only go away with some tea.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: Morning headaches, if they're regular, can be a sign of sleep apnea.  Are there any signs of snoring or disrupted sleep at night?
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: Headaches after oversleeping can also be because of caffeine withdrawal.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: There are apps available on every OS that measure your sleep cycles and can wake you up accordingly. The ones i have used seem to work very well, and at least help you become more in tune with your body.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: Drink more water, then you can sleep for 10 hours, don't forget to empty your bladder before going. To sleep to.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: You are waking up in the middle of a sleep cycle. If you wake up at the end of a sleep cycle, you'll feel refreshed. Check out _URL_0_ for good info on setting up your sleep cycle correctly.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: As was said before, the headache is from dehydration and low blood-sugar.  The reason breakfast is called breakfast is because you've been fasting for approx. 8 hours and you're now breaking the fast.

As to why you're feeling sleepy and such, your brain isn't sleeping as long as it *wants*, exactly.  Your brain doesn't *want* sleep, but it *needs* sleep, and the amount that it needs any give time varies.  The research on what goes on in an overslept brain isn't nearly as extensive as what goes on in an underslept brain.  And so its hard to say exactly why you specifically experience this.  It could be sleep deficit, or the fact that you aren't getting enough sleep the majority of the time, and so when you oversleep you're catching up on lost sleep and paying interest on it, too. 

The core of it is that your brain goes on a roller-coster ride of deep and light sleep as it bathes in different hormones and chemicals while you're unconcious.  If you have a strict schedule of sleep that you adhere to consistently many days in a row, your brain adapts to that pattern and knows just how many cycles it has time to run through before you wake it and makes sure it gets through them to get the most out of your rest.  Your brain doesn't wake itself up from sleep, though, external stimuli trigger the rush of hormones that cause you to wake up.  Before modern conveniences like A/C, and curtains, the gradual warming of the air and increased amount of light shining through your eyelids was your external stimuli.  The crowing of the rooster or the ring of the alarm clock replaced those stimuli since we sleep in light-sheltered climate-controlled environments...so sleeping in isn't letting your brain sleep as long as it wants, its just removing the signal your brain relies on to know it needs to wake up.

This is important because while its in sleep mode, it just keeps repeating those hormone and chemical bath cycles over and over again based on how many it expects to fit into its expected amount of sleep.  But it doesn't get the stimuli it was expecting, and keeps going until some other stimulus triggers wakefulness.  At this point, it could be in the middle of a cycle that now won't get finished because your brain (typically) knows better than to start bathing in sleep hormones while you're walking around and doing things.  And that's primarily why you're groggy and sleepy for so much longer after waking up from over sleeping.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: I'm just here in awe of the people who can sleep for 8-10 hours.  I'm happy when I get 5.  

Insomnia + apnea = sad panda.
question: Why do i feel so tired when I've slept for 10 hours instead of 8? And also, why the headache? answer: I grind my teeth, almost always woke up with a headache.  Got a nightguard, no more headaches!
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Your room is an enclosed space. The air circulates easily. 

The outside air is not enclosed. It circulates globally, but local airflows arnt easy to purify. The smog my be reduced in a certain area, but you'd need multiple systems to cover a large enough area.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Back in my day, we called those trees. And you didn't have to build them. They just showed up on their own.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Consider the volume of air in your room to the volume of air outside. Imagine how many rooms full of air there are within just one square mile and compare that to all the smog that China has. Now consider how much coal they would need to burn to power just one giant purifier and how that would impact its cleaning effort.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: LPT: For any question beginning on "why don't they..." lines, the answer is always "because it's too expensive."
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: They already have something like this in the Netherlands.  
  
 > While the prototype is currently in Rotterdam, Roosegaarde aims to eventually roll out other models in Beijing, Mexico City, Paris and Los Angeles.  

_URL_0_
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: So many bullshit answers in this thread it's just ridiculous. The answer is they are working on doing exactly this (though not the same as your small air filter). [These pollution cleaning towers will be the tallest buildings in the world](_URL_1_)
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: That sounds like a pretty bad-ass landmark, and similar systems  for carbon sequestration have been proposed in design circles for some years now. However, it comes down to cost. It's not profitable to build a giant air filter. Also, given the massive amount of air in our atmosphere, one building would have almost zero impact. Think about it this way, there are thousands of coal stacks smoking up the place. One building trying to take all that crap back out of the atmosphere isn't going to be very effective. It would be more effective to build the filters on the power stations and adopt more clean energy sources.  Also, the energy it takes to run it would produce more pollution. Unfortunately it's not such a simple problem.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Hey I'm a faades engineer so I might have the answer. They do exist. They're called smog fighting faades. They work more like a catalytic converter on your car using precious metals to remove harmful chemicals from the air. 
_URL_2_

As for why the Chinese don't use them? They don't really care about the safety of people or the environment from what I've seen so I doubt they'll spend the extra money for this.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Link to air purifier? It depends, on how yours works.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Because the planetary atmosphere is incomprehensibly huge, and all of it is interconnected. 

According to the numbers I found online, we have 3998910000000000000 m3 of air in the atmosphere (or at least I think that conversion from 5.1 x 10^18 kg of air is right). 

The largest such air purifier built is 23 feet tall and purifies 30000 m3 per hour.

It could, if my math is correct (which is always chancy, as math is not my strong suit) take that 23 foot tower 15.2 billion years to run the atmosphere of the entire world through itself once. Assuming you could somehow assure that no part of the atmosphere circled back before it got the end of the queue, which you can't. 

There's a much easier way to clean up the atmosphere. We let mother nature do it, after we stop pumping filth into it. We've been pumping filth up there now for centuries, and cleaning it up will take a long time as well. And will happen never, if we don't stop polluting.

Which is why it is absolutely crucial we retire all the filthy coal plants, make the factories clean and stop using combustion engines. It's the only way to clean up the atmosphere.

The global warming will already make over 400 of our largest coast-bound cities uninhabitable in the next 100 years. New Orleans, Miami and a buttload of others are already irretrievable. We won't fix calamities on that level with some air cleaners.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Well, they did. There are billboards in China that instead of advertising anything are air filters full of algae.  
The algae-filters acts like trees but can be places in less convenient places such as on the sides of buildings.  
How many there actually are, I have no idea, but they are out there.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: You have a skyscraper size air purifier in your room?!  I, sir, am green with envy.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: It is clearly possible. However. It comes down to math. It is 10000x times less costly to pollute less, than clean the air afterwards. In fact it probably would be incredible pricy to clean air in a city enough to make a noticable difference. Where would you put the purifyer if you would build it? close to the biggest contaminant? Or why not "on" that contaminant... wait, it would become a filter at the release-level...

The second argument is that the enteties responsible for pollution should pay for this, not goverment. 

In reality, its about creating laws and control-organs on goverment level. To ensure that filtering is done when releasing gasses. Not making bigger and better purifiers that only would lead to more contamination since there would be more "room" for it. Less smog = less complaints. Less complaints, less focus on the "real" problem.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Because the cost of producing enough energy to run such a huge machine would probably produce just as much smog as the machine filtered
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: I think they're working on something like this.

Here are some sources

_URL_5_

_URL_4_

_URL_3_
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Hey!  A little late to the party, but I just want to mention one thing about air purification that you may find neat-if you put some titanium dioxide nanoparticles on a skyscraper's windows, the windows actually purify the air around the building.  I'm unsure if most of the buildings in China utilize this technology, but it's just a cool trick I learned from a nano class I took.

Source: Learned in a class and right here _URL_6_
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: They'll make one and then Dyson will put out a more expensive one they'll say works way better.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: There's a lot of people knocking OP down. Sounds like a good idea (at least the intent) and Studio Roosegaarde also think so! 

They are planning on deploying one in Beijing: _URL_7_
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Let's assume your room is 5m x 5m x 3m = 75m cubed
Also assuming your filter machine is 0.5m x 0.3m x 1m = 0.15m cubed. So each cubic meter would require 0.002 cubic meters of filtering machine.
So lets take Shanghai for example with area of 7 billion m squared and lets say around 500m up into the air. That will require a filter machine that sucks 3.5x10^12 m^3 of air. 
This machine would be 7 x 10^9 cubic meters in volume. To give you a perspective, the empire state building is only around 1 million cubic meters. This air filter would have to be 7000 times the empire state building which is not a plausible feat even with today's engineering and just be too expensive to build.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: yes, one kind is called 'tree' they are green and the size of a building. 

When people realize that public good is important and dare to spend money on such things, they could make mechanical filters, it wont probably profit in money therefore it can be a public investment. But doing that shows that people want clean air, and if you are the government you can also do that in other ways. Like building alternative energy power stations and instate stricter pollution ordinances.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Well beyond the logistical and structural problems its because there primary power source is coal. To power those massive  things they'd need to burn a hell of a lot more coal which would generate more pollution rendering the devices moot. This is also why Chinas recent announcement that it's building  a large amount of new nuclear reactors is a wonderful thing.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: It's easier to stop it at the source.  A giant air scrubber would fill up with bugs, birds, dirt, water, and whatever else is in the air that's supposed to be there.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: It isn't a matter of ability. If China cared about air quality, they would impose standards to prevent it from getting fucked up in the first place. They don't care.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: It would take burning twice as much coal to generate the electricity manufacture it, so they'd be behind the game as soon as started.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: They have tried and planned for purifiers before however the cost of maintenance and number needed made the entire process inefficient.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: this is why china is going to build 110 new nuclear plants. to power that damn skyscraper sized air filtration system.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: You have a skyscraper sized air purifier *inside* your bedroom? That's a lot of room! Think of all the activities!
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Why have you got an Air Purifier in your room? What are you doing in there? Having an industrial revolution?
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: How in the hell does a question like this get over 3800 votes?!

I'm...at a loss for words.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: You have a skyscraper sized air purifier in your room?
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: You don't understand how an air purifier works. It doesn't magically purify air. It sucks in air and usually uses electric charge/filters to either remove or convert air pollutants into a kind of solid dust that is captured.

A massive skyscraper sized purifier designed to purify an entire city's air will likely create 50 kmph winds in the city. To prevent this, you will need numerous small inlets all over the city with closed conduits to transfer the ai to the purifier. This makes the system very expensive and inefficient.

All the waste dust and dirt will likely have to be handled. In general, it is much more cost effective to NOT create the pollution in the first place, rather than clean it up.

If people are not willing to pay for the much cheaper solution of preventing pollution, it is too much to expect them to pay for the much more expensive solution of cleaning up the mess.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Money is the main reason for why they don't.

Huge building size filters are not the right answer, as they are not technically air purifiers, only another money pit that doesn't do enough to actively offset any real quantity of pollution. One big purifier won't work either but if they have a multitude of small purification enhancing changes around the city it would help greatly. 

A good thing that should be used more frequently is to paint roofs with a Titanium Dioxide mixed paint which reacts to sunlight to create air purifying molecules, though this would only help greatly in a massive execution from multiple homes and businesses.

At the end of the day the real answer is cutting down on emissions and letting nature do its thing. Greenery eats up carbon dioxide and creates fresh oxygen while electrical storms create ozone which breaks down most types of pollutants in the air.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Let's say you built an air purifier, or several of them, that was big enough to clean china. 

The only way the purifier is carbon-negative (meaning it removes more carbon than it emits) is if the electricity used to power the machine came from a carbon-free process.

this image: 
_URL_9_
shows China's energy sources, taken from an excellent blog on TESLA vehicles and the story of energy at _URL_8_, it shows the majority of China's energy comes from burning coal.

So building and running a huge air purifier would not take away carbon unless it ran on energy that was 'clean', or non-carbon producing. China would be putting more carbon in the air building and running these huge machines than could be removed by running them.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: first, it will be way more easier and effective to put the air purifier directly at the source of the smog. Directly at the chimney of the coal power plant that power more than 80% of China. It is what is done in most developed countries that still rely on coal power (like Germany).
But for that you need to have and enforce environmental laws and regulation, and Chinese government had prioritized business over environment.

Second, who will paid for the skyscraper sized air purifier ? For the waste it will generate/recover ? Who will build it ? What is the business model ?
the only viable model for environment problem is make the polluter paid for the environmental impact.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Cleaning up the air is easy compared to figuring out what to do with all the pollutants you collect. If you can somehow grab all the pollutants, including the ones in the upper atmosphere, you need to put them somewhere safe. Bury it in the wrong place and the pollutants escape and pollute the ground or just go back into the air. If you could manufacture the pollutants into solid hard blocks you'll be onto something, but you'll need a shit ton of space to store the blocks.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Best word I can think of is cubic loading. A 2000 cubic foot room might have 2 square feet of filter. If we wished to keep this ratio then a 200 ft high square mile volume would require about 5.6 million square feet of filter. That's 1000 filter sheets each 75 feet by 75 feet. It might be possible but it would be one hell of a facility... every square mile.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Other than the technical difficulties, why would china government give a fuck about that? Don't forget it's a country that would mask tragedies but celebrates the "helpfulness" of the rescue team, deny all dark deeds(4June FTW), to name just few.

If the government really want to lower pollution, it can start from emission regulations first.  Giant air purifier would just be too costly to maintain
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Well first off all, there's no reason to build something so big that will require heavy-duty construction and tons of wasted effort and material on reinforcing the structure etc. If you want to go the "use an air purifier" method, build thousands of refrigerator-sized units and scatter them everywhere, including on top of existing skyscrapers if you want.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Because China doesn't give a fuck about the air quality. Why would they build something? 

Trade negotiations required China to install air scrubbers in their dirty coal power plants. China installed them. Trade negotiations said nothing about actually turning them on, so they are off. China doesn't care.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Can you imagine trying to clean/change the filters...?

 > "Hundreds crushed to death yesterday amid the calamity that was "weekly filter change day." Officials point out that less then half as many died as last week.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: They can't because the order of goods from US and the rest of the world are tall. They have to work hard to make them, otherwise Opium War happens.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: While we're at it, why can't we just construct a stadium sized freezer to generate iceberg sized ice cubes and solve global warming? I mean, why not?
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Because having giant filters is a non-starter, and using charged current to clean the air creates ozone, which would be a problem from a skyscrapper sized filter.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: They would have to care. IF they cared, they would have already put air cleansing equipment on all factories causing the pollution in the first place.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Think of it like standing in a big swimming pool and use a bucket to remove the dirty water.
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Why don't they just put them on the tops of the smoke stacks? Filter the source..
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: How about a giant fan that blows all the smog out of the city?
question: Why don't the Chinese just make a skyscraper sized air purifier like the one I have in my room to solve their smog problem?I have a air purifier, made in China, that filters my room's air 10 times in an hour. Why don't they just make an enormous one the size of a building to clean their smog? answer: Can you imagine how much those skyscraper-sized purifier refills would cost?
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Some manmade lakes/ponds are stocked artificially, ie they just straight up dump fish or eggs in. Other isolated bodies of water, like glacial lakes, are stocked with fish by birds, which carry eggs and/or adult fish and then drop them into water (accidentally).
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Salmon biologist here. Most of the issues (in Alaska) come from people introducing species. Sockeye salmon stop feeding when they enter fresh water, so they're not great for sport fishermen. So people smuggle in northern pike, for example. Aggressive hunters, fun sport fish. Apart from that, there is transport between bodies of water from birds, small mammals, and in weird cases, float plane floats. 

Also, natural pools are almost always connected to the watershed. It's rare to have a water body that is completely isolated from all other waters. Simply put, if you're "on the grid", you'll eventually get all fish and plant species colonizing the system.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Bird is chilling doing bird stuff in an established body of water, and happens to get little baby fishies all up in its feathers. Then it flies to the new body of water and drops 'em off.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Lot of talk about birds here, but don't forget flooding.

Even a relatively isolated pool can receive new species from a '100-year flood'. And I'm sure less isolated pools are flooded more frequently. This also helps explain why fish in different lakes are still the same species.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Zoologist here.

A surprisingly common method of transport can be attributed to birds. 
Fish commonly lay eggs in similar areas to where water/wading birds are found and it is not unusual for some eggs to become attached to said birds as they wade/swim in a certain waterway.

These birds may move between a number of different waters in search for all sorts of all sorts of things and can naturally deposit eggs from another water. Sort of like pollinating insects.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: There is a theory known as the "ducks feet hypothesis" where eggs can be transported to new locations, or between isolated bodies of water, via mud caked to the feet of water dwelling birds. Floods also assist dispersion obviously.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: We have a small pond in our yard that we put in around 4 years ago. We never put any fish in it, however we started to notice some tiny animals swimmimg around, we presumed they were tadpoles. Over the next few months we watched our "tadpoles" grow into small, brown fish, and now our pond is full of 20+ goldfish. Please explain.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: If the pool is big enough to attract wading or swimming birds, ducks and such, they commonly get fish and other marine life eggs stuck to their feet which will then get deposited when they move from water source to water source.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Not all of them do.  Setting aside human introductions, it depends on connectivity to other bodies of water.  There are plenty of alpine lakes all over the world that do not have fish.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Fishy eggs don't stay in one place and they're kinda sticky. Animals and boats and stuff move from pond to pond and lake to lake, and sometimes they pick up some fish eggs.  Eventually some eggs fall off in the new pond and when they hatch we get fishies.  There are other ways, too, but this is usually how it happens.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Natual lakes, ponds, etc. also don't just appear overnight. In many cases they used to be fed by rivers, streams, or even were a small inlet of a large body of water. This source was eventually cut off from our new pond for whatever reason, and the ecosystem that already existed there continues to thrive.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: We had alot flooding last year.  A reporter asked the top official at the airport how do you know this water is coming from a lake or river? Official says we have found numerous species of  fish which are not indigenous to the air field.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Flooding aswell, a creek near a farm I used to work at flooded pretty bad and it rose above our pond. After a few weeks we noticed there were quite a bit of fish which brought herrings and turtles aswell.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: i never knew it was automatic. i always thought people put them there. officially and just random people doing it
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: FWIW - some years ago I had a small (1/3 acre, 10' depth) pond built on our property.  I stocked it with bluegill  &  bass plus a few grass carp. Over the years we've had cranes, Canada geese and ducks visit for a while, but never stay (there's really no safe place for them to nest). And NOW we have bull frogs, an ABUNDANCE of thin shell clams and this spring even a good sized turtle. I am quite happy to see this diversity since amphibians are a sign of a healthy pond, but I KNOW no one has intentionally introduced any of the critters that showed up in recent years.  It's only one data point, but based on my observations I HAVE to believe that avian transport is a credible vector for their spread as my small, private pond is entirely dependent on rain, run-off (from a hay field) with occasional supplementing from a well, to keep its level maintained.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Just saw lots of comments on here and its so crazy because in some evolution class I was taking we were learning about how different species get to islands (i.e Hawaii has lizards but not snakes). And I was like, "oh they must just hop on a log and float over." Well, yes. as silly and simple as that is, that is the island hopping theory. So I guess it's the same with fish. They somehow float over through water shed or connecting rivers. Or they're even dropped from birds and stuff. Its crazy but life always finds a way.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Minor point: I'm not convinced it's entirely automatic and only a matter of time. I have a small natural pool in the garden that doesn't have any fish in it after 6 years (plenty of frogs, newts and at least one snake though). The bird theories sound plausible, but likely requires other water bodies with fish nearby to work, as well as suitable types of birds.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Here in Japan I see a lot of man-made lakes, a lot of them I'm guessing for irrigation.  I find very few, if any, have fish.  They have a LOT of frogs, though, so many that the tadpoles look like schools of tiny fish.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: catfish will literally walk/slither across land. They don't even need a pond they can survive in mud.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Research Gate suggests there is some evidence of avian transport but the jury is out _URL_0_
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: There are fish that can hibernate in mud when pools dry out and 'come back alive' when it rains again. In addition there are fish that can 'walk' over short distances using adapted fins as legs. If you live in North America you probably have not come across these species.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: Flooding can also move fish.  Most times, lakes are stocked on purpose with game fish by the state or by the landowner.  But flooding is the only natural way I'm aware of that a fish can go from one waterway to another.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: They don't. There are a lot of fishless lakes in Lapland, for instance. They are fishless after some 10000 years since ice age, mostly because there is no outlet to other lakes and rivers.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: In Australia (and possibly elsewhere too) there are species of fish which lay their eggs in mud which wait out the years-long droughts and hatch when there's finally enough water to survive.
question: Why a newly created natural pool automatically gets fish after a while? answer: I read a recent science article that said birds have been noted landing in one pond and flying to another with fish egg clumps on their webbed feet.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: You're most likely to have some sort of accident during takeoff and landing. This is also why your tray tables have to be up and you can't have laptops during these times: ease of evacuation. If your seat is back, and something happens and the plane needs to be evacuated quickly, you just made it harder for the person behind you to get out.

Edit: I've gotten this message lots of times, and as has been beautifully explained, your window thing has to be up so, in the event of an emergency, emergency personnel can see into the plane/you can see a fire, should there be one.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Most of the answers are in the right direction but ultimately incorrect here. All the seats are tested for a very specific set of conditions, including seat up and table in the upright position. The seats pass or fail based on how much bodily damage they do, so adding more things that increase bodily damage, such as being farther away from hitting the seat in front of you or having a tray table down or a bag in your lap, cause you to make the test conditions not applicable anymore and cause a dramatic decrease in the survivability of a crash situation. 

And yes, the test conditions are only applicable in the times of flight that are most likely to crash, taxi, takeoff, turbulence and landing. In those situations, you prepare for crash situations by removing all items blocking emergency exit, put your seat in the tested position and fasten your seatbelt. 

Source: I do this testing for a living.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Aerospace Seat Engineer here...The reason passengers are asked to put their seats upright or in the TTOL (Taxi, Take Off and Landing) position is because the seat has been engineered, tested (dynamic and static) and certified in this position and only in this position. TTOL is the most structurally sound position the seat can offer in the advent of an emergency.  A few degrees off of the TTOL position can greatly affect effectiveness of seat safety devices.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Two main reasons. 

1. When the seat is up, it is locked. When the seat is back, it's not locked. In the event of an emergency, an unlocked seat has more force during impact, and the thrusting forward of that seat can cause passenger injury

2. It gives passengers more space to clear the aisles (in case of emergency) which is required by FAA regulations.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: As a flight attendant, I can tell you that it's all about evacuation. In the event of an emergency, the goal is to evacuate an entire plane, regardless of size, within 90 seconds. Ensuring the seatbacks are upright, and the aisle paths at your feet are clear, gives the most room possible for people to make a quick escape. Not all seats recline the same amount, so the upright rule allows for consistency in procedure.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: If you have a mass fatality accident, it's usually during takeoff or landing, and the cause of death is fire sweeping through the cabin.

The fuel tanks are designed to survive 5 minutes after impact, and the cabins are incredibly fire-resistant. That means you have 5 minutes to GTFO the plane in the event of a survivable crash. (Most crashes are survivable; on average, on planes that have fatal accidents i.e. one or more passengers die, 60% of passengers survive the accident).

Anything that slows evacuation is a BAD THING when you have 5 minutes to get out and after that anyone that hasn't evacuated is dead.

The other factor is that seats are tested to survive at least 9 g-forces (EASA - the European authority - approved seats) or 16 (FAA - the American authority requirements). But they are tested in an upright position, and their crash resistance is not tested in other positions.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: The reason is that you have to do crash tests on the seats and they are done with the seatbacks up. To qualify another position you would have to do another crash test. The tests are expensive and time consuming. The tray table is because you can whip forward and hit your head on the tray

Source: designed passenger aircraft seats for several years
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: There are two main reasons why flight attendants pester people to keep those seats upto keep injuries to a minimum during a crash and to clear the maximum amount of space for a quick exit.


Read more: _URL_0_
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Your seats need to be upright so the people behind you have unimpeded access to exit their rows in the event of an emergency. I know it's not much space, but it can be if one seat sticks out further than the others.

The tray table must be up for the same reason, and so it doesn't cut you in half in the event of a sudden stop.

The windows are sometimes required to be up so the F/A can see if there's smoke. Visibility. Usually only regional carriers require this, and then only a few.

Pro-tip: Unless you're sleeping on an overnight international flight, there's no need to recline your seat. Just don't.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: You know that crash position they show you on the safety card? It's harder to get into that position if the seat in front of you is reclined. It's also harder to get out, or rescuers to get in. Also, imagine your face smashing into the seat in front of you. Would you rather it were reclined?
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Crash loads for airplanes are mostly down, unlike in a car where they are mostly forward.  In a hard landing you don't want to be leaning back because the backrest could collapse under your weight and trap the person behind you.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: **Why do you need to put your seat in the upright position and stow that footrest?
**
Because in cattleclass, a reclined seat infront of you is going to slow you down from evacuating, and seats are also tested in the upright position (which is why First Class Passengers have to do it too). A reclined seat also makes it difficult for the person behind to get into the brace position.

Footrests? Well those things will take your ankle clean off during a crash. 

Bonus answers:

**Why do you stow your personal belongings?**
Because they become missiles if the plane crashes or hits extreme turbulence.

**Why do they dim the lights when landing/taking-off at night?**
Because if something goes wrong and you need to evacuate, your eyes do not have to re-adjust to the outside light.

**Why do they open the windows before landing/taking-off?**
Because the crew need to be able to ascertain quickly if there is a fire outside, and on which side, and also emergency crews need to be able to see inside.

Source: I fly A320s.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Safety reasons aside, it's also because they need all the seats upright for the next flight, which usually only has a 20 minute window for cleaning crews (like, one person) to work the plane.  If they had to deal with all the reclined seats in addition to the slop trail you filthy beasts leave behind, why there would be a ten minute departure delay that could only be avoided with some stupid boarding algorithm that solves a problem you didn't actually have.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: The Economist wrote a truthful in-flight announcement back in 2006. As your interested in this stuff, here: _URL_1_
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: I'm an aircraft seat engineer.  The seats are tested to keep you safe during a plane crash, which is more likely during taxi, take-off, and landing.  When the seat is tested and approved by the FAA, the test dummy in the seat measures the impact on your head as it hits the seat in front of you (or anything else).  Not keeping your seat upright or your tray table stowed could result in head injury to yourself and the passenger behind you higher than tested and approved by the FAA.  In other words, you could very well die and kill the passenger behind you by not having your seat upright.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: At an airshow once years ago I boarded a plane, maybe a 737, I can't remember...it was a medical transport plane and all seats faced BACKWARD.    That makes more sense than anything and is the safest possible scenario.   All airplanes would come with backward facing seats if safety was indeed the top priority.   Safety is a very high priority but not enough to inconvenient passengers and ask them to sit facing the rear.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Related:  ELI5 why it is so hard for people to listen to the stewards and put their bags into the overhead bin wheels first?  Like, hey, fuckbag, if you put it in sideways you inconvenience everyone else that wants to use that bin. Ugh.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Yes, that single inch throws off the planes steep climb inclinometer, multiplied by 200+ passengers, all leaning in the wrong direction, this inclinometer will inadvertently send the plane into a back flip just as its taking off at the end of the runway and the nose is up and catching head winds.  So next time you think it's cool to bust out your sickest pimp lean, please remember, you're also about to do a dope ass back flip.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: It's so the person behind you, in case of an emergency, can put their heads between their knees with their hands over their heads easier. Also, evacuating is easier when the seats are upright and people have free movement.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: I am somewhat sceptical of airline regulations, but this one makes sense. Some others don't. Ie, no radio receivers as they might interfere with the plane electronics, absolutely impossible. Source, work in the radio field.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: One time my seat back could be moved forward more than the others, so when the flight attendant came around they thought that the other 2 people had their seat backs reclined. XD
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Aside from what others have said, it's also so rescuers can see passengers in the windows (One of the reasons they also ask for all curtains to be drawn)
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: i'm 6'4".  that 1" is a lot.  keep your seats upright at all times, even during flight!

i don't even know why they recline...
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: They wouldn't want people to be comfortable when the plane crashes upon takeoff/landing due to someone not putting their phone into airplane mode.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: > Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on?  

That's what she said.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Why are passengers allowed to put their seats down during flight?
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: FAA regulations only require that aircraft and seat manufacturers analyze, test and certify their seats in the "Taxi, Takeoff, and Landing" (TTL) position. Therefore, occupant safety during an accident has been demonstrated by the manufacturer only ejected the seat is in the TTL position, which is most commonly fully upright with tray tables, headrests, video monitors and other equipment in the stowed position. To minimize cost, manufactures choose to use this TTL position most commonly. But it is possible to define a reclined position or even a bed mode ( in first class) as the takeoff position, but it requires that position be demonstrated to meet the occupant safety requirements.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Essentially it will boil down to being the the best position for bracing yourself and having high accessibility from all seats to the corridor or the outside in the case of sudden interaction with the ground. 

But also this request also makes the aircraft look uniform and inconsistencies are easier to spot and makes the aircraft look better after cleaning too, just removes a tedious task for the hosties.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Given that seats only recline about an inch, why do people get so amped when the person in front of them reclines?  I fly rather frequently, and I don't particularly care if the person in front reclines, but it seems to be a rather common gripe if the internet is to be believed.  Overhead bin hogs on the other hand...
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Actually, the reason for this us pretty interesting. Sitting upright shifts the centre balance point if the plane slightly forward making it easier to take off and therefore saving fuel. Planes can take off with people reclined but it makes for a more uneven takeoff, increases drag and turbulence and wastes fuel. Source: airline pilot for 35 years
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: It's almost irrelevant anymore because reclining your seat back on a coach flight is the social equivalent of flex-farting in a church.  It's punishable by being systematically beaten by everyone in the last 2 rows.  And you know how pissed off those people are.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: I have been binge watching Air Disasters (Season 2, though Season One was equally terrifying). From now on, anything they tell me to do, I'm doing it. The amount of little shit that can go wrong and cost lives is overwhelming.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: It helps you survive a plane crash and explosion. It also helps if you have your lucky snorkel.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Late to the party here, but the FAA has strict regulations (FAR's) that airlines must follow. FAR [121.577](_URL_2_) and [FAR 121.311](_URL_3_) outline the requirements for tray tables and seat positions. One of the many reasons for these regulations is safety. The airline is designed to be just as safe as it needs to be. Center of gravity shifts at points like takeoff and landing could kill everyone on board if the shift is extreme enough. These shifts could be caused by a collective tipping back of every chair on board. The tray table, I would imagine, is simply to prevent impact damage to a passenger during a sudden stop at takeoff or landing.

Source:I'm an Aerospace Engineer
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: This is my job! I smash test dummies into seats for a living, to make sure they're safe. The regulations only require us to do this in the upright position, because it would drive more (expensive) testing and be much harder to desing seats if we had to qualify seats that were reclined as well.

Whether or not the seat is reclined would have a huge effect on how the test dummy (or you) strike the seat forward of you.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Lights dimmed, blinds open, seats up and trays stowed are normal for take off and landing. Lights so your eyes are adjusted ready to evacuate in a dark cabin. Blinds so emergency response can see in before cutting fuselage. Seats and trays have been covered already
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: It's an insurance liability. If they didn't tell you that they did not do "everything within reason" to ensure your safety. It might not matter 99.9% of the time but 0.1% will sue the living shit out of you.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Google what happened in souix city Iowa in the 80's. The folks that lived where found scattered about the runway still strapped in to their seats.

_URL_4_

Warning, some of that video maybe hard to watch.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: You should have your Tray Table Up, And Your Seatback In It's Full Upright Position to allow everyone best access out of the Isle in the event of an evacuation.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: After being on a plane that had to slam on its brakes going 200 mph on the runway, I get it.
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: Follow up question: why do we need to pull up the window covers during lift off or landing?
question: Why do airline passengers have to put their seats into a full upright position for takeoff? Why does it matter?The seats only recline about an inch. Is it the inch that matters, or is there something else going on? answer: So the person behind you doesn't smash their teeth in on your seat?
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Generic companies only have an advantage if the brand name drug is expensive and has a big number of users. Then they can swoop in at a lower price and take away some of those users.

The drugs currently in the news are already cheap and have a small number of users. The conditions they treat are rare. Therefore, no company has wanted to compete with them. 

A company might be interested now that the price is $700+, but they have to invest time and money into building production lines and gaining FDA approval. And it's not like they can come in at $500 - they already know the brand name company can sell for $10 if it wanted to.

So they have to decide if it's worth making a generic that isn't very profitable.  

--
ETA: Some specifics on Daraprim, based on questions below: According to [Bloomberg](_URL_0_), Daraprim has only about 2000 American users. It cost about $1 most of its life, rose to $13.50 in 2010, and recently jumped to $750. That *big* jump is what's causing the recent interest. The CEO says he'll use the additional profit to invest in more effective treatment research. Daraprim also uses a [strict](_URL_1_) distribution, making it hard for competing companies to get samples of it and complete FDA approval.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: > What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs?

It's their job, in a way. What that guy recently did is completely in line with how America currently regulates and prioritizes its healthcare industry, so it is as simple as "The CEO had an opportunity to lawfully make more money, and he chose to do so." If it causes enough legitimate outrage from society, we are free to change the rules in order to make our moral outrage into regulation... otherwise, the CEO is doing what we, as a society, have said, "Sure, that's okay!"

 > If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?

There are various ways to gain a monopoly:

* [Trade Secrets](_URL_4_) provide a potentially unlimited monopoly (so long as no one lawfully figures out the secret) on a technology/product.

* Patents provide a government-granted monopoly for about a decade (depending on the item/product) in exchange for the inventor sharing how to create the product, which then becomes public property when the patent expires.

* [Natural Monopolies](_URL_4_) occur when, for various reasons, the market favors a single source of production/offering of a product and, as a result, it isn't worth it to competitors to try to overcome the barriers of entry to the market to compete.

* Supply Chain dominance can also lead to a monopoly. A good example of this is [liquid soap](_URL_3_). In short, the creator of liquid soap in dispensers realized there was no way to prevent competitors from copying its new product (which it, rightfully, recognized to be extremely valuable). So to guard against competitors, before going live with the product, the company bought up the world's supply of plastic pump dispensers. Then, when the company brought liquid soap to market and sales went through the roof, competitors were prevented from competing simply because there were no plastic pump dispensers for purchase, which required competitors to either (a) spend the money to create their own factories/supply lines for plastic pump dispensers or, (b) buy out the company. They opted for the latter.

This issue falls somewhat in the "natural monopoly" world combined with "supply chain dominance."

Here, the market had essentially allowed a single company to create this drug for a while and, for whatever reasons, the price of the drug reached a reasonable price that the market was cool with and no competitor could see value in competing with. Then that drug was purchased by another company who raised the price considerably. 

This would, as you pointed out, generally create an incentive for competitors -- except the new company controls the supply line to create the drug, which makes any possible competition face a lot of costly barriers (creation of new supply lines, in addition to the usual expenses of clearing a drug with the FDA).

Because of those barriers, the company has no reason to reduce the cost of its drug (legally, at least).
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: You're referring to the current news. The reason is because it's an orphaned drug. Companies cannot produce a generic without filing an ANDA to show bioequivalence. This is very expensive and is a financial loss to generics companies (who require a large market of users, of which this drug is not).
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: The government is actually the cause of a lot of generic drugs prices sky rocketing.  Many drugs that have been used for decades were never approved by the FDA, they were just "grandfathered in".  Having been used for so long, they are already known to be safe and effective.  As a bonus, they are usually also very inexpensive.  Well, the FDA under Obama has decided to force these legacy drugs to go thru the FDA approval process.  The result is a drug that was previously safe, effective, and cheap suddenly becomes ruinessly expensive.  Pilocarpine, for instance, used to be $4 a bottle.  Now it's $200 a bottle.  Phenylephrine has also gone from $8 a bottle to $180 a bottle.

This is a great deal for the drug companies.  Usually, putting a drug thru the FDA approval process is pretty risky.  But now they have a whole catalog of drugs that they already know are safe and effective.  They can get these drugs approved by the FDA and then be granted the exclusive right to produce them and then jack the price up 1000%!  All this without having to spend a penny on R & D!

There is absolutely no reason to make drugs already known to be safe and effective get an FDA approval.  It screws consumers, increases healthcare costs, and adds nothing to the body of scientific knowledge.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Other companies could manufacture them however no other companies want to so they have the market to themselves. Other companies could but theyd have to spend a ton of money scaling up to be able to produce the drugs and once they did the prices would just come back down and theyd make very little profit if any.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Off patent drugs are cheap, but, some drugs for relatively rare conditions don't sell in significant volumes to make them worthwhile.  The FDA created an Orphan Drug program with all sorts of benefits for companies that make these off-patent, seldom used, but, very important drugs.  One of these benefits is market exclusivity.....which means no competition.  The Hedge Fund Assholes acquire the companies with the rights to these drugs and radically increase prices because they are needed to save lives and there is no competition thanks to the FDA.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: People should be able to choose if they want an FDA stamp on their meds and pay $100,000 +. Or no FDA stamp and know you are running a risk and spend $1000. 

By the way that risk can be minimized when buying the med from another country that has a trustworthy drugs control agency.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: In the case of Martin Shkreli there's a good chance it was done so that he could short Biotech stocks.

There's a looming election, and a public outcry about healthcare would provoke a comment from a politician in the race, which would effect the industry dramatically.

By controlling the "push" (doing something negative) he also partially controls the "pull" (the response, a politician saying they'll regulate), and thereby influences the industry he's made a bet on (stock downturn, which he's already placed his bets on).

It's market manipulation.

One of the first things he ever did was suggest shorting a Biotech stock, which made his firm a bunch of money.

He's also known for taking to social media to disparage stocks he's betting against, including using dummy accounts to do so.  So he makes a bet, and then influences the outcome.

But, using social media to try to tank stocks you want to short has a relatively limited effect, and the SEC might not like it.  But hey, if you're part of the actual industry and your company makes a dick move, that's legitimate.  His company has nothing to do with making drugs for children he's heartbroken about.  It's 100% a method for manipulating the markets effectively, because that's how he knows how to make money, and money is what he wants.  He's a hedge fund guy, not the Biotech Elon Musk of our wet dreams.  

It's like what Goldman Sachs does, but on a smaller scale.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: A friend of mine worked for a generic pharma company that started developing genereic drugs for various conditions for felines and canines.  

At first the company had success selling the cheaper drugs to veteriarians and then they started to approach large distribution companies.

When the large distribution companies tried to buy the generic drugs, the brand drug companies came back and said if you buy these two or three generic drugs, then we'll cancel our contracts with you for all the other drugs you sell from our brand.

In the end, the veterinarians and distribution companies wanted to buy the cheaper generic brand drugs, but because the generic companies could not offer the huge lot of drugs the larger brand name drug companies could, the veterinarians and distributors had to refuse the sale...and had to remain with the brand name drug providers.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Regulation plays a role. It takes time and money to get approved to manufacture a drug, even though the chemical itself is already approved for sale. If Company A raises the price, Company B might want to compete, but they would have to apply for approvals. They won't do it because once they get approved Company A will just lower its price again. Company B will be out its regulatory and ramp up costs, plus their time.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Stuff like this is just plain ridiculous,  it's incredible that just across the border in Mexico, the same medicine, made by the actual creator of the medicine (GlaxoSmithKline) is just about 10 dollars for 30 tablets.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: They don't care about bad publicity, they're in it for the money. For example in this latest high profile example we have a former hedge fund manager with no experience in pharmaceutical research who suddenly started a company to buy these old drugs and jack up the price. It seems like what his firm has done is to identify drugs that are relatively low priced, lose volume drugs that have no competition due to the small size of the market. Then they buy the drug, jack up the price 5000%, and since there is no alternative drug in the marketplace they have a captive market. If you need it then you can't not get it.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: There is no incentive to lower prices in an insurer pays market.  Higher prices for drugs mean bigger bills. Bigger bills mean a bigger pay day for insurers who make about 3% from each transaction.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: It should be noted most of the expensive drugs are USA exclusive.  You can get most drugs cheaper online.

My drug for example is $35 for 30 day supply, if I got name brand in the usa it would be $2,400 fr same amount.  That is how fucked up the system is.

In fact I buy all my perscription drugs online now, online pharmacy offer %100 resend of meds if customs takes it.  So really no reason to spend that much for mst drug s.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: In the case of Daraprim (this is the one that is in the news currently), even though the patents have long expired, the distribution is still tightly controlled, meaning it's not easy for generic drug manufacturers to get ahold of it. They'll need to compare their version to the real deal in order to get FDA approval, and it's not easy to do when the distribution of the drug is tightly controlled.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Many drugs are hard to make chemistry wise. As in tens/hundreds of million dollars. If it's just barely profitable for a company to spend that money to make a generic drug, someone thinking of also making it will think twice because they will be sharing customers with the original generic maker.

None of this excuses raising the price of something life saving by  1,000 percent.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: It more recent news its more a market scam, he buys a drug, marks up its price, gets bad PR, stock prices fall, buys a lot of low price stock, takes the price back down slowly in the coming weeks, stock goes up. They do it all the time....
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: There are cheaper manufacturers. The drug is sold for less than a dollar in India. American crony capitalism would never extend free trade for drugs. Because our congressmen and senators are on the payroll of drug companies.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: The problem is also the corruption of the FDA and big pharm. There is a drug used in anesthesia which is generic and at least 40 years old. The cost used to be about 1 dollar per vial, and is used daily. The FDA decided it could no longer be used in it's generic form because it was being used "off label", though it has been for decades. It then awarded manufacture of the same drug to a couple of companies, allowed them to inflate the price almost 100 times, and called it good. The FDA is in bed with big Pharm and is the cause of multiple examples of corruption. The US is the only country allowing direct to consumer advertising by drug companies, which also magnifies the problem.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Not to defend this guy, but has it been listed what he paid for the company/drug/production lines?  All I've seen for days is that it "cost" a dollar to produce.  Well maybe wholesale for the previous company.  But if he paid millions for the company, assumed debt, HR liabilities, etc, than wouldn't the NEW per pill cost be mic much higher than the legacy company's internal production costs? (Even if still way under $750).
Genuinely curious but also defensive/cynical of these knee-jerk made for media story lines.

Secondly, I had no outrage once I read was an off-patent drug. Should be pointing more angst and anger at all the largest manufacturers who decide NOT to make it at all...,
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Not mentioned in the comments yet:

Companies who price raise prices on out-of-patent drugs under exclusive production will often switch the distribution method from manufacture- > pharmacy- > patient(in the open) to manufacture- > patient (total control).  

One of the reasons they do this is that for some other manufacture to produce an equivalent drug, that manufacture has to get a sample of the market standard drug. 

The sample is required to test against to ensure that they are truly equivalent. If they don't do that, then they have to go through all the original regulatory approvals as if it's a new drug.....which means years and $$$$$$$$$

This is what Martin Shkreli is doing with Daraprim.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Apparently, the drug had sales of about 10 million dollars last year when it sold for 13.50 a pill. Turing acquired the drug for 55 million and increased the price 50 times or so. Given the same sales this year since there are no other alternatives, the company is looking at making 500 million, a cool 10 times return in a year on investment.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: This might be dumb but how hard is it to make some of these drugs? Could we see the rise of black market labs selling illegal copies of medicine? Is there anything life saving that you could mix in your kitchen for a fraction of the cost?
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Making money off of Healthcare is sleazy in the first place. I know why you can make money off Healthcare. People need incentive to invent cures and such but the "pay me or die" mantra needs to end.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Part of the problem is the medical insurance system in America.  The massive costs of certain drugs are split over multiple companies and then spread between all the subscribers in those companies.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: That's the thing, I can't remember where, but I think he said something like he knows it can happen and wants it to.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: Simply put, they are fucking greedy cunts that really do not give two fucks about actually helping people.
question: What's the deal with these CEOs raising prices on generic drugs? If they're generic, can't another manufacturer produce them for much cheaper?It seems like the only thing that will happen is that the company will get really bad publicity... answer: And its only going to get worse... via the TPP _URL_5_
question: Anti-aliasing answer: **ELI5 Answer**

Pixels are all square.  That means they are very good at drawing straight lines, but very bad at drawing curved and diagonal lines, because things start looking jagged.

Anti-aliasing uses blur and smoothing to hide the jagged edges so that things don't look quite as pixelated.

[Here is a good example side by side](_URL_0_).
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Try taking some basic LEGO bricks (let's use some black 2x2 blocks  for our example, part #3003) and try to make a diagonal line with them. You'll find the best you can do looks like a staircase with zigzaggy corners.

Now step back and squint a bit so your vision is blurry. The further you are, the less you notice the pointy corners. If you were to do the same thing with DUPLO bricks of the same 2x2 size and color (part #3437), you'de find a similar effect, but you'de have to be much farther away to make it look less zigzaggy.

So how can we get rid of the zigzaggyness? One way, as we saw, is to use smaller bricks (pixels), which allow us to be closer. But there's also another trick you can use. Going back to your original smaller bricks (which are black, on your conviniently white table), start placing grey bricks so that they touch a black brick on two sides. You'll notice the line is bigger, but if you step back and squint, it'll look even less zigzaggy than before. That's because the grey is the color in between the line and the background, which means they blend together better when we look at them. This is a type of antialiasing.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: *I copy-pasted this from an old post I made on /r/pcmasterrace*

To understand how anti aliasing works, I'm first going to explain why it is needed. First you need to know what a sample is.

###How images are rendered

Imagine your computer is rendering an [image of a tomato on top of a table](_URL_6_). In order to render the image each of the 1920 \* 1080 pixels on your screen needs to have colors assigned to them. This isn't as easy as viewing a video or an image. The tomato can be viewed from any angle, and the pixels will need to be recalculated many times every second to produce a smooth animation.

A sample is a light/color calculation that can be thought of as an infinitesimally thin ray of light. Imagine that you have a bunch of these rays of light, and pretend these light rays are 1-dimensional objects - lines - that are going straight through your screen. For those familiar with optics this is called normally incident. Most often each pixel will get one ray of light.

Most often your computer runs a [single one of these rays through the middle of a pixel](_URL_6_) (the surrounding pixels in that image are highlighted to make it easier to see the sample). When one of the rays hits an object in the game, it bounces off and goes back through the same pixel it came from, this time with the color of the object it hit. [That ray then determines the color for the whole pixel](_URL_6_).

###Why AA is needed

Now most of the time this works pretty well. If you have two pixels from the same object that are right next to each other - like two pixels on the inside of our tomato - they'll have pretty similar colors and the image will look smooth. However, when you reach the edge of this tomato, [you'll eventually find a pixel is no longer over top of the tomato](_URL_6_). The pixel on the left will be red like the tomato, but the one to the right of it will be brown like the table it's on. The difference in color is dramatic. The pixels are either on the tomato or not, there is no middle ground.

The problem here is that the pixel's don't accurately represent what's going. If you look at the "pixels" drawn over [the image of the tomato](_URL_6_) you'll see that the area covered by the some of pixel has too much information to be conveyed by a single ray of light. On the right half of the pixel there's the table, and on the left half there's the tomato. Other pixels contain significantly less information. The pixels in the upper left corner of the image have fairly uniform colors throughout them, so when they are reduced to a single sample there is less information loss.

The solution programmers have come up with this problem is what we call anti-aliasing. The game engine [takes more than one sample per pixel](_URL_6_) (either one in each corner of the pixel, a few different samples in a grid formation, or sometimes even in random locations). Some will hit the tomato and some will hit the table. The colors are then averaged together to give you your final pixel color.

###Types of Antialiasing

The method of AA that's the simplest to understand is called super sampling anti-aliasing (SSAA). It simply takes more than one sample in every pixel on the screen. Because sample calculations take a while to do, this form of AA is extremely taxing on your graphics card. You're essentially rendering the same screen multiple times.

Another form of AA is called multi-sampling anti-aliasing (MSAA). This form of AA has an intelligent algorithm that finds out what pixels need more than one sample, and then simply does more samples on those pixels. This form of AA is much cheaper than SSAA and is also a lot more popular. MSAA doesn't work well for all games. Minecraft is the best example of a game where the edges of objects aren't the only thing that needs to be anti-aliased. Take a look at the insides of block textures. The game doesn't blur anything inside of blocks like most other games do, so SSAA is the best option for Minecraft.

There are other forms of AA, but these two are the most popular and the simplest to describe.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Apparently Reddit is full of gamers who tell you nothing of the core concept. 

So let's start with what aliasing is. Let's say your checking to see how often a light blinks. So you decide you are going to check it every minute to see if it's on. 

You start the timer and you see that the light is on at the minute mark. Aha.. You say it blinks every minute. But wait... What if it was blinking every 30 seconds... And because you were checking every minute, you only saw every second blink and missed the 30th second blink event. 

So you say... Fine. I will check every 30 seconds now. And yet the question can be asked... What it was blinking every 15 seconds and you only saw every second and forth blink event? 
Essentially, you were seeing blinks that were partly determined by your speed of checking for them. You saw 1 when there could have been 2,4,6,8 etc. Blinks in that minute. 

There is a pattern here which I won't get you but this inaccuracy that occurred is called aliasing. 

This goes on and on and you eventually reach a conclusion. You can only be absolutely sure of the frequency of something if you check it at least twice as fast as that frequency. This is called the Shannon Nyquist sampling theorem. 

Anti-aliasing is basically the opposite of this and depending on how complicated the setup of frequencies is, methods to anti alias also change. The fundamental method of anti aliasing is simply check the frequency more often in time or space and hope that you are at least twice as fast as the actual frequency.  This is called supersampling. 

You could do something more complicated. For example. You could check every 10 seconds , and also every  15 seconds. This means you will be able to see blinks if they occur at some point for all multiples of 10 and 15 seconds. That's pretty good. By checking at 2 different speeds, you've sort of reduced the need to go faster for one frequency. This is called multisampling

Now in a computer for graphics, aliasing occurs because pixels are processed at a certain frequency, change at another and are displayed at still another frequency. This creates the jarring because of aliasing (you aren't getting all processor produced pixels displayed because you screen refresh is to slow for example). You have to use extra tricks in the GPU to makes sure the image does not get jarred. This is anti-aliasing... Performed by more complicated algorithms of the same basic steps above.




Edit : A lot people seem to be assuming that the word "frequency" only refers to temporal frequency. It doesn't, your assumption is flawed. Before the "this is wrong" comment, I recommend you read up on Fourier analysis. _URL_8_
and _URL_7_

These links are definitely not for 5 year olds, but are suitable for the poorly informed tunnel-visioned teenagers who are whining below.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Depends on the type of antialiasing. They're all very different.

MSAA and SSAA work on a pretty simple principle: increase the resolution of the content being rendered. You get more detail that way, which decreases aliasing. SSAA straight up increases the internal resolution of any 3D image. MSAA is more complex and selective, but still works on the same principle.

Purely post-process antialiasing techniques like FXAA do not actually change how the picture is rendered at all. It's just a filter overlayed over the image being rendered. Think of an overlay making all colours red. It's that kind of filter. It's just a flat 2D filter overlaying your screen. It doesn't touch any of the 3D rendered model data in any way. Only instead of changing the colour value of all pixels to red it changes their values strategically to try to reduce the colour difference between contrasting parts of an image. This reduces the visual perception of aliasing. 

There are different hybrid forms of anti-aliasing as well. Some of them are pretty clever in how they achieve their goals.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Aliasing, in the most general sense, is a concept in the field of signal processing that happens when sampling a continuous signal. Think of a sine wave -- you could sample its value anywhere in time (assuming the time domain is continuous). But if you don't sample frequently enough, you might not get enough information in order to understand the original signal. As a contrived degenerate example, imagine a sine wave with a frequency of 1Hz. If your sampling rate is also 1Hz, you'd see the same exact value every time you sample, and you'd have no way of knowing that the value was fluctuating in between your samples.

This concept extends to more complex signals -- by sampling a continuous signal at discrete intervals, you can lose information.

ANTI-aliasing, which is what you asked about, is the set of techniques that can be used to mitigate the problems (known as artifacts) resulting from aliasing. If you give a little more info about exactly what application are you are talking about, e.g. computer graphics, I can provide more details.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Think of two squares touching at corners... the image is quite jaggedy. In things such as video games AA predicts what should be in the empty space to create a smoother images on thing objects (such as wires or lines) or object outlines.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: This Linus tech video covers it. Saw 3 days ago _URL_9_

TL:DW - pixels are squares like a grid, which makes diagonals shit, so either add more tiny pixels to trick the eye into thinking it is smoother or smooth the colour of the pixels around.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Aliasing happens when you try to describe something that changes rapidly, and you can't describe it fast enough. For example, imagine you're measuring a half a meter deep hole, and your measuring stick is only capable of measuring in full meters. Whatever measurement you leave with, you've lost information of the real size; you're left with an approximation. 

The same thing happens in sound. Say you want to measure a 10Hz wave (moves up and down ten times a second), but you are only capable of measuring it five times a second. You'll never get an accurate representation of the true shape of the wave, and anything you come out with is distorted. This is aliasing. The more samples you make, the closer you get to a real representation what the shape truly is.

A guy called Nyquist proved that in order to sample a frequency, we need to sample at at least twice the rate. 

So, anti aliasing is a way of getting around these fundamental issues in what happens when we lose information in our signals. With pixels for example, the square edges introduce such a harsh transition that we lose information of what goes on between the pixels. An interesting way of reducing this effect includes sub pixel anti aliasing, where you take advantage of the fact that each pixel is comprised of a discrete R, G, B value, smaller than the pixel itself and therefore capable of generating higher 'spatial' frequencies. It has been proven that you can share these colour components with neighbours to try and spoof the missing information, producing what appears to be a much higher quality image.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Screens are grids of rectangular dots called "pixels"; they're pretty small, but they're still _waaay_ too big to perfectly show curved or even just "crooked" shapes.

This is most noticeable when computers are drawing shapes; if I draw a circle using only those dots, it'll look jagged. That's called _aliasing_. Humans don't expect their smooth shapes to look jagged, so aliasing makes computer-generated images look less real.

_Anti-aliasing_ is a term for techniques you can use to trick people into not seeing as much of that jaggedness. One technique is to trace around the outside with "lighter" (less-saturated) versions of the color of the edge. This creates an optical illusion of "blurriness" which tricks us into thinking the edge is smoother and less jagged.

And less-jagged images look more realistic to humans.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Aliasing is a duplication of signals that occurs when a signal is digitized. 

In the real world, signals like sound and light are *analog time continuous*. This means that their values can take any value at all. For example, a sound signal might have a maximum loudness, or intensity of 99.579 dB, and a frequency of 15 kHz. You can think of a wave as a collection of infinite points, that all together make a continuous wave. 

Because computers are digital, they can only take a certain amount of point from this wave. Computers measure the intensity, or sample the wave, at a certain rate, to measure the signal. This rate is called the sampling rate. 

If the sampling rate over twice our frequency, say, ~~20~~ 40kHz, then our signal of 15 kHz can be reconstructed pretty accurately. However, if we have a sampling rate of~~10~~* 20kHz, we will start running into problems. 

Because the sampling rate is less than our signal, it cannot accurately measure it. The signal reconstructed by our computer will be distorted, and will look like a lower frequency signal, or an *alias*. (will add a picture later for clarity) 

In order to fix this, frequencies higher than twice our sampling rate are simply blocked. In music files, the sampling rate is about ~~26~~ 44kHz, which means a maximum audible frequency of 22kHz. Since the human hearing range tops out at 20kHz, it doesn't matter that these high frequencies are blocked out, because we can't hear them.

Edit: Thanks to /u/ipwnmice and /u/oonniioonn for some corrections.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: So there are a bunch of different techniques for anti-aliasing, but there are two main categories: render-time AA and post-process AA.

**Render-Time AA** - These techniques are applied *during* the render of the scene. As pointed out elsewhere, one of the main ways of doing this is by super-sampling, or drawing the scene at a higher resolution before down-sampling it to the display resolution. This can fix both [jagged edges](_URL_12_) and thin lines disappearing. Nvidia's [page on DSR](_URL_10_) does a pretty god job of showing how super-sampling helps with both of these. 

One of the most important differences is that render-time techniques get to use information about the 3d geometry of the world, and only smooth things like the edges of polygons.

**Post-Process AA** - These techniques are applied *after* the whole scene has already been drawn. The input to these is just the "finished" 2d image. The most common post-process AA is FXAA. The basic idea of these is to look at neighboring pixels and look for big changes in neighboring pixel color. These indicate hard-edges, which are where aliasing occurs. [Here](_URL_11_) is an image showing the edge-detection steps of FXAA. Once you detect those edges, you can blur them a little, hiding the aliasing.

Post-process AA is super easy to add to your game, because you just stick it on at the very end of your render pipeline. Just make sure to apply it before you add in your UI, because all those hard edges in the text and boxes will come out blurry.

The problem with post-processes is that it doesn't know if a hard edge is *supposed* to be there. It may end up blurring some of your textures, especially if there is text on them.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Imagine pixels as a bunch of squares covering a perfectly smooth image. How do you color the pixels so they look like the image underneath?

You could color each pixel according to the color of the image exactly at its center. But what if there's detail smaller than the pixel, and you happen to hit a small detail that doesn't represent the color of the whole pixel? You'll color the whole pixel like that small detail, and it will have a color that's mostly wrong.

Really what you want is the *average* color of all the details inside the pixel. That means that all the details smaller than a pixel get smoothed out. This makes the image look better and smoother, and can also prevent pixels from blinking on and off as the centers move over small, high-contrast details.

It's very hard to *exactly* compute the average, so must anti-aliasing techniques work by measuring the color at multiple specific locations inside each pixel, and mixing together the results. The way you mix things (i.e. [weighting locations differently](_URL_13_) according to whether they are near the center of the pixel or far away) can affect the perception sharpness, or the brightness of fine details like highlights.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Followup question: ELI5 Anisotropic Filtering?

I mean, I know what it does (make surfaces you look at a small angle be less blurry), but my question is, why are they blurry to begin with and require extra filtering, if the same surface looks non-blurry if viewed at a direct angle.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Pixels are square, and solid colored outlines look jagged if the squares aren't small enough.

Anti-aliasing corrects this by adding steps of transparent color near the edge to create the illusion of a smooth surface. Here's a [diagram](_URL_14_) I made to show you with and without anti-aliasing.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Lots of unnecessarily complicated answers.

Imagine you're drawing a black 45-degree line on a computer screen. The obvious thing to do is to draw the bottom-left (say) pixel in black, move up and right by one, draw another black pixel, and so on, until you've drawn all of the line.

Because all the black pixels of the line are square and you can see the individual pixels, this results in a jagged-looking line. You can make a smoother line if you also colour in the pixels adjacent to those drawn in this example, using a colour intermediate between black and whatever's behind the line.

In a 3D render (including in a game) the obvious way to do this is to render the picture twice as big, and then for every pixel you actually have on your screen, you average out the four pixels of the image you rendered. This works out to the same thing. It's a lot of extra work though, so games use tricks to make it faster. This might involve a filter which looks for jagged lines and smooths them out. However, this might accidentally find something that is supposed to look jagged and smooth it out too much, so it's tricky to get right, though much faster.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Aliasing occurs when the sample frequency (pixel density or audio sampling) is not greater than twice the frequency of features in the signal being sampled. Imagine you have bricks on a wall that are spaced slightly less than 2 pixels apart you'll get a periodic pattern in your image where the spacing is forced to become 2,2,1,2,2,1,2,2,1... What this looks like in reality is a weird wave traveling across the wall. Anti-aliasing is designed to correct for this, It does so by analysing the frequencies present im the image and removing the ones higher than can be rendered properly- the resulting image no longer has sharp edges on a single pixel, rather the edges are smoothed over a couple of pixels. This eliminates the waves. It should be noted you will alway get aliasing if your captured data is not of high enough quality regardless of how you process it, but you can hide it at the cost of quality. Aliasing when rendering a large image onto a smaller number of pixels can be removed.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: Intentionally making lines fuzzy so that they look less blocky on the diagonal.

To make a line look fuzzy, simply add colors which are closer to the background color the further you get from the center of the line.
question: Anti-aliasing answer: dude i was totally about to make this post when i woke up this morning. but thanks for doing it anyway, i have been meaning to learn what this is lol
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: I actually saw a talk about this from a current, foremost researcher in the social psychology of relationships, Eli Finkel from Northwestern University. His argument, with some evidence, was essentially that since around 1850, the psychological motives behind marriage mimic a progression "up" Maslow's hierarchy of needs:

At first, people married because it helped secure food and shelter, because companionship was a commodity.

Then people married because it secured social and group acceptance/support.

Then, people married for love of individuals regardless of food, shelter, and social acceptance, because these resources were accessible regardless of marriage. If I recall, he said this was around 1920-1950 in the U.S.

Then people started marrying to satisfy their self-esteem instead of achieve love. "Even though I love Jim, I need to be with Greg because he increases my status, confidence, and feelings of self-worth."

Now, he argues, people are just beginning to marry for the sake of self-actualization. More and more, we seek a partner that we believe can help us become our "true" selves, the person who can help us fulfill who we are "meant" to be. This is, of course, nearly impossible to find in a partner, by any practical standard.

All credit to u/idkwtfhell

_URL_0_
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Its not vastly different. Men were marrying in their mid to late twenties, women mid teens to early twenties. In a general sense. Adolescent or prepubescent marriage, while not unheard of, was not the norm.

Norms varied by location, time, and economic situations. They differed in Northern Europe from Southern Europe(I'm excluding the rest of the world for simplicity's sake and I'm assuming OP is referring to the European Middle Ages as well), before and after the black death, before and after different economic and military upheavals.

Economics generally drove how early people got married. After the Black Death lowered the competition for jobs it spurred a lowering of the average marriage age going into the Renaissance as they could afford to earlier. People actually got married later in the middle ages than shortly after.

Adolescent marriage was frowned upon by folk and church wisdom and economic necessity. Marriage for love is arguably a newer phenomenon linked to the modern era.

If you're curious:

_URL_1_

This generally coincides with what was being taught for Middle Ages history in college about 10 years ago.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: A lot of misunderstanding about life expectancy here. Having a low life expectancy value for a time period does not mean people didn't live a long time. In most cases it means a lot of people died young and in most cases very young. 

Take for example Korea in which the first birthday is a really big deal because many children didn't make it to one and if you did your odds of getting to old age went up dramatically. 

If you have 10 people live to 70 and 10 die before 1 the life expectancy is 35. 

Having and raising kids before you die wasn't a concern, getting to the age you could have kids was the concern. 

Edit: Since there's some interest in the comment I'll refer to some things cited on wikipedia for life expectancy.  This all goes the point I was making, gotta get past the hard years, weakness to illness, fighting wars, being stupid (a side effect of being a kid) and you can expect to live a good life after that.  But the actual life expectancy number is low.

 >  Paleolithic- Life Expectancy 33 - Based on the data from recent hunter-gatherer populations, it is estimated that at 15, life expectancy was an additional 39 years (total 54), with a 0.60 probability of reaching 15.

 >  Classical Rome - Life Expectancy 2030 - If a child survived to age 10, life expectancy was an additional 37.5 years, (total age 47.5 years).

 >  Late medieval English peerage - Life Expectancy 30 - At age 21, life expectancy was an additional 43 years (total age 64).
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Regarding the life-expectancy, frequently it wasn't the person who was marrying that was the issue, it was their parents.

I have two direct ancestors where this was the case in the 1800's, and I'm sure it was in countless others...

Young woman is 14 or 15 and both her parents have died.  She cannot work, as women "didn't belong in the workplace".  There was no safety net of social security or such.

The only safety for women was to either be living with their parents or be married to a man who would provide for a home and food.  Occasionally they would live with another relative, I've seen several "old maids" living with siblings, nieces, nephews, etc.  But generally speaking, marriage was the best route to financial security.

If you were a young woman, unmarried, and without parents or some wealthy uncle who could take in another mouth to feed, you were likely to become homeless very shortly, and probably dead not long after.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: This might actually be an interesting question for /r/askhistorians   

I'd be interested in their answer to this

I'm not sure how to do a cross post though
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Part of it might have something to do with the changing notion of childhood starting around the 19th Century (at least in Europe and the U.S.). This is where you see the emergence of the middle class, the "traditional" nuclear family, and childhood as a specific stage of life. Children began to be considered much different from adults, as middle class children didn't have to work for a living. This differentiated them drastically from adults.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: In the west it hasn't really changed that much between the middle ages and about the 1960s. After that, the age at which people got married slowly went up because women were expected to be "established" in a similar way to men to have a stable home life which took time. Otherwise, women usually got married late teens/early twenties and men a bit after that, because men had to establish careers and whatnot.

Women got married younger than that occasionally but there was usually a reason why. Marriages between powerful families would be arranged at a young age because marriages helped cement political alliances, so daughters would get married off ASAP if it would be politically advantageous. Other reasons would be extenuating circumstances, like a girl getting pregnant (even if she's 14, she can't have children out of wedlock). The first reason is probably why we think people got married much younger -- royalty and the like are written about much more than common people.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: These marriages were political and economic alliances. In cases where one or both of the spouses were too young for sexual relations it was common to delay consummation of the marriage until the couple reached a more appropriate age. 

The consummation of the marriage between Duke Henry Fitzroy, illegitimate son of King Henry VIII of England, and Lady Mary Howard was delayed due to the fact that they were both in there early teens when married and it was deemed inappropriate for them fully live as husband and wife.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: You only hear about monarchs who married a lot younger mostly for political reasons.  Normal people was about the same, at least post puberty for girls (often to older men)
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Marriage has been intrinsically related to two things until the last 200 years or so; religion and economics. 


The most recent shift is due to women's rights. Women now work more, are educated more frequently and put career ahead of family in early life. These have led to a sharp increase in the age when people marry, to a lesser degree the onset  of children and number of children. 

Another influencing factor in marriage is the decline in church influence. In particular the reduced power of monolithic churches like the Catholic or Orthodox Churches. These were able to dictate the marriage/societal norms in a much more authoritative way being a single organisation. You still see the power of religion on marriage in some non Western countries with arranged marriages etc and whatnot. Religion was, for most of history, the law. The religion of the area dictated who could marry, when and how it would be done. 

It's worth noting marriage for love is incredibly new in history and mostly confined to the West /wealthy countries. Aside from the religious aspect, people would marry for economics. Normally the woman was valued on beauty and home skills and married to the best suitor. Normally people would marry within their own class; not many Cinderella stories. 

TL,DR.
Marriage has been stable until approx. 200 years (very approximate). Before that it was often arranged, based on religion and economics. Shifts happen due to reduced power of church and women's rights.

----------------
And right as I finish typing this I realise OP only cared about age. That difference is the most recent, see the 2nd paragraph for that.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: With all the answers you've already gotten, it's fair to say this is a complicated issue, at least more than it might have originally seemed. Some points I haven't seen touched on though, are our changing understanding of sexual maturity.

It used to be that a girl was considered a woman at the onset of menstruation (when a girl started to get her period). I've read some research to support that this used to happen around 15-16, instead of 12-13. No one can really agree on why girls seem to be getting their periods earlier though. Regardless, nowadays we know that women don't really reach full sexual maturity until their 20s (men and women sort of peak around 24ish). This is from harder things to measure, like how well the body heals after injury, how developed the skeleton is, etc...
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Many game-changing elements came from developments in psychology, human rights, and the organisation of family & community. 

For one thing, the concept of children did not really exist until recently (and adolescence wasn't really a thing until the 1950s). Children were just tiny adults, who worked alongside their parents and were usually married off to help secure the family's workforce and finances (N.b.: This varied a lot among class and cultures; nobles were expected to be married off much faster than working classes and provide children for heritage purposes, whereas working classes expected many children because they were useful workforce). We've only noticed that children have various development stages a century ago, and have modified our behaviour towards them accordingly. We now know that 12-year-olds have not really mastered the formal operational stage and are unable to provide consent, but in medieval times they were seen as just as good as any other adult. 

Speaking of consent, that wasn't a thing in most cultures. Concepts like trauma and well-being were not taken into consideration until we've understood the human brain a bit better, so now we realise that sexual abuse and sexual behaviour too early on has long-lasting consequences on the individual, but at the time there was no correlation between them (if you were crazy, it's because you were born crazy; if you could act normal, you were normal). You married who your parents wanted to, or you had a shotgun wedding your unlucky childhood sweetheart. Now that love and respect are considered elements of a marriage, they add a lot of time to the process. 

We also go through the process of mandatory education, which has become a sort of landmark for maturity, and that delays the process as the landmark becomes further and further ahead in life. Then there is the matter of the *necessity* of marriage. Like I said a bit earlier, you *needed* to pop out as many kids as possible, either to preserve the family name or to bring out some helping hands around the farm. Only half of your children were expected to live, so making the best of your biological clock was crucial. Now that we don't have to rush to churn out 4+ kids by the time we're 30, we take our time with it. And since we expect our kids to live a long time and we're the ones who provide *for them*, we put off marriage until we feel comfortably to emotionally and financially support them. 

There are multiple other factors, of course. The shift didn't happen overnight.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: The nobility married much younger than the commoners.

The job of noble children (especially the female ones) was to make sure the line did not die out. As such it made sense to marry girls away no later than they were able to conceive (i.e. puberty). Boys younger than that. To form alliances children were sometimes married even younger. Since the nobility has had this need for millennia, religion and societal norms were designed to approve.

For commoners the picture was different. They had to worry about having a house and a farm (typically), so that they could feed a family. For this reason they married much later.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Women go through puberty earlier when a male is not living in the house: _URL_3_

So in eras when a person's "marriageable age" depending on whether or not a person was past puberty, stable environments where a girl grew up with a father tended to be later-marrying eras.  Instable environments where a girl didn't have a father tended to be earlier-marrying eras.

So, lots of war/disease/whatever and no father in the home? Early puberty, meaning early marriages. Stable easy living? Later puberty, meaning later marriages.

This is also true for chimpanzees.

Edit: And we're seeing this today as well, although some studies are ignoring the primate evidence and earlier studies and instead blaming it on increasing exposure to phthalates: _URL_2_ And maybe they're correct about the phthalate connection -- I wouldn't know.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: They didn't see children as children back then. More as tiny adults. There was much more expectation on younger generations back the.  There are some interesting reads from psychologists that wrote about the mindset of people back in that era. It's really intriguing. We coddle the fuck out of our kids these days.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Accepted age of marriage in the middle ages did not significantly differ from modern accepted age of marriage. Most underage marriages were done for the sake of political alliances between nobility, and are not reflective of society in general.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: - Child mortality rates and natal mortality rates have gone down. (Edited. Mistyped it before).

- Availability of sex before marriage has gone up.

- Women's work rates have gone up. Building a career takes time, and women are less dependent on men for their livelihoods.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Even in rich, "first-world" countries, we still have a people around who married under the older system.  One of the people I admire most in this world is a wonderful old lady on a tiny island in the far corner of Japan with a population under 2000 who married in 1935 at age 16 -- something that had been the norm until her parents' generation but was already becoming rare as the 20th century dawned. 

She was very intelligent and her family had no problems with the 30-year-old doctor (freshly back from studying in the great outside world) that she had fallen in love with, understanding that their 14-year age gap was overshadowed by how happy they would be as intellectual equals.

They waited until she was 21 to have her first child, and she eventually had six of them, and dozens of grandchildren and great-grandchildren.  

She's slowing down quite a bit now at age 96, and her memory is getting spotty, but there is a special look on her face when she talks about her husband, who has long since left us behind.  They loved each other as completely as a couple possibly could.  I envy what she got to experience; today such an early marriage would be unthinkable.  If you know anyone who has had this kind of life -- and the odds are you don't, but you could probably find one if you tried -- listen and learn from them.  They're a vanishing breed.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: In England, traditional English common law put the age of consent between the age of 10 and 12. Sensational newspaper exposes of the 1870's and 1880's, focusing on child prostitution, forced change. This was first accomplished in 1875 when the age of consent was raised to 13 years old. 

However the newspaper stories didn't stop there. More and more media revelations exposed the seedy but 'legal' Victorian culture. The work done by investigative journalist William Thomas Stead forced the government to change the laws again. In 1885 he published a series of articles titled 'The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon' when he 'purchased' 13-year-old Eliza Armstrong for 5 and took her to a brothel. This shocked Victorian London with tales abduction, procurement, and sale of girls for child prostitution and caused numerous demonstrations demanding the age of consent to be raised.

Fearing riots on a national scale, the government was forced to raise the age of consent to 16 and clamped down on prostitution with the passing of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885.

US history is a little more vague, but most States had set the minimum age of consent at around 712 years by the 1880's. In response to the 'The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon' articles in the UK, US female right reformers fought to raise the minimum age to 16, and then 18 years. This was mainly accomplished by the 1920's.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: This doesn't seemed to be addressed here but if you look at hunter gatherer or primitive cultures today you can see people marrying and having kids earlier then we do. 

I read a book where the author compared our lives to their and he said (I'm paraphrasing hard core) - People think that a 16 year old girl being married with a kid is to young. But these women and men are much more mature at 16 than a person in the US is at 25. They have learned life skills and they can handle their own and they have responsibilities. 

Basically the gist I got was that people were much more capable and mature than we give them credit for. And if you hurl major responsibilities on a young person they can actually handle fine them quite often. 

I think that when society gets more refined and complex we assume that young people are more incapable than they actually are. 

The funny think is that we start puberty earlier than they do our me our ancestors did.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: In any patrilineal society where title  &  property follow from the father, it becomes essential to know that one's offspring are in fact one's own. These cultures tend to focus on chastity (limiting other men from having intimate access to the woman) as a safeguard, so early marriage, even before puberty, puts a lockdown on her babies.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Part of it is life expectancy, but the biggest part is the massive cultural shifts that have taken place.

One thing to remember about the middle ages in Europe is that morality and moral philosophy were the province of the church and what little of paganism remained in quiet corners. Authority came from God or with the mandate of various gods, and in the Bible especially women are regarded as a form of political currency. You give your daughter to another member of your community to solidify your bond with them, build connections. Wives are property, expected to provide comfort and housekeeping, essentially in servitude to husbands.

Over the past 500 years a great deal has changed regarding the rights of women, the rights of children, and the relationship between men and women. A child is not a piece of property, a chip in a game of local politics. You might gain entry into certain quarters of society with your children, but they aren't slaves. Similarly, women are not expected to serve their husbands as they were in the middle ages, at least not by any large political authority. Of course, a lot of the current political climate is relatively recent (marital rape was not illegal in many places until ridiculously recently), and I'm not particularly well read on the shifts that were taking place in the 19th century vis a vis marital age (though there was probably a gap between cities and rural areas starting to appear at that time).
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: In many cases the age of marriage did not change drastically at all. 

Distinguishing between classes is pretty important here. I think the myth comes from a lot of stories of noble and royal families, when marriages could be arranged by the time the child was just barely out of infancy. (The actual wedding didn't happen before puberty, however). At these social levels, stakes were high and families had a lot to gain by being strategic.  Lower class people were more likely and able to marry for love, simply because people had little enough that trying to marry for wealth or power just didn't get you very far.

The average age of marriage for commoners was not far from where it is today. Average age for women was 22-24, and for men around 25-28. The idea of marrying young is very much tied to the arranged marriage customs associated with the rich and powerful (12-15 for girls, 17-26 for men). Conversely, modern numbers in developed countries are around 26 for women and 28 for men. Numbers were actually lower in the 1960s-70s, with 20-21 for women and 22-23 for men.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: 3 things: infant mortality, death in childbirth, and lack of a safety net.

Before a safety net, your children were your Medicare and Social Security. If you didn't have kids, you weren't going to have someone to care for you when you got too old to work. That was a huge problem, so people tried to maximize their chances of children who would outlive them.

This brings us to the other two points. Infant and child mortality used to be really high. In Ancient Rome, there was about a 50/50 chance of a kid living past their 10th birthday. So, if you wanted to have kids who survived into adulthood, you'd need to have a lot of children to ensure that some would survive. As a result, women needed to start having children as soon as they were fertile to maximize the chances. But, lots of women died in childbirth, meaning it was even more important to have kids as early as possible, so that the man could remarry and have more kids who would be able to survive and care for him in his old age.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: There are very good answers here but i havent seen anyone mention complications of childbirth. Until modern times having a child was extremely dangerous and there are better odds of survival at young ages. 

A lot of the reasons also toe together the economic, medical, cultural etc. as an example older men would need to marry younger women in order to try to have kids. Women were not as productive economically so were often seen as a liability and were married off younger, etc. 

Edit: heres an excerpt from on article on the age of first time mothers:

The number of mothers having babies even later in life also drew the average up. From 2000 to 2014, the proportion of first births to women aged 30 to 34 increased 28 percent, and those among women over age 35 went up 23 percent. 

_URL_4_
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: having lived in SE asia a while where it seems that prostitution is the standard among the poor because presumably its the only way for women to make an income and also the only way men can afford sex. the marraige/ relationship deal is probably similar to the west but only for people that are lower middle class and above, so I would guess income has more effect then life expectancy. if you are looking at europe I would guess marriage was more a deal between families with money, victorian england also had large numbers of women that resorted to prostitution rather then marriage
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: 1. The [invention of adolescence](_URL_7_) in the mid-19th century. "in centuries past, a sexually mature person was never treated as a 'growing child.'" Part of this was due to "child labor laws" meant to reduce competition for limited factory jobs.

2. The necessity of a college degree to secure a middle class lifestyle. A century ago, high school was "secondary education", meaning optional, meaning a lot of people were done with school after eighth grade.

3. The dumbing down of education. Proficiency after college today is in some ways equivalent to proficiency after high school a century ago, especially in literacy. This combined with the above have made [bachelors degrees the new high school diploma](_URL_5_).

4. The modern lifestyle treats children as costs (paying for college, paying for braces, they're not able to work until age 22, etc.) rather than as assets (helping hands during harvest), so families are smaller, and there is no rush to form families by getting married.

5. The legalization and social acceptance of fornication, cohabitation, and birth control have reduced the incentive and eagerness to get married.

6. Similarly, no-fault divorce (since 1970), which permits unilateral abandonment for any or no reason and court-ordered taking of half the assets and future salary, has discouraged marriage.

7. Privacy is a [_URL_6_](modern invention) as is, of course, the nuclear family. The idea that you have to save up for a 3BR/2BA house (or, thankfully, just the down payment ever since the New Deal invention of the 30-year mortgage) before getting married is new, and doing so has pushed off the age of marriage.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: The age of consent has always had more to do with the ability to bear children without sustaining injury or incurring death more than anything else.
Modern medicine is just that---a *modern* innovation.
While there are mentions of c-sections being done in ancient times, these were not the norm or even fully understood until relatively recently.
As unbelievable as it may seem, even episiotomies we're unknown to physicians until relatively recent times; while this was a standard practice among midwives for thousands of years.

Another reason for the age of consent has to do with the navet of bored young girls, especially back then.
Think about it...
No internet, no movies, not even radio or newspapers.
The stranger comes to town and talks of adventure, then makes promises he doesn't intend to keep.
An unwanted pregnancy, the resultant social stigma, or perhaps even a sexually transmitted disease (incurable back then) resulting in insanity and blindness.
Players were despised back then, because of these things.
There wasn't adequate contraception or protection against these walking syphilitic chancres.
Having an age of consent on the books was just another way to prosecute sociopaths and predators such as these.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Marriage ages weren't universally low throughout previous time periods.  At least in Medieval England the average age of marriage was actually higher in Medieval England than it was throughout most of the 20th century in America. People get confused because, at least in regards to that period, the noble classes tended to marry young because of the potential political and financial benefits.  The lower classes still needed a solid profession before they could start a family.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Human rights preventing the normality of arranged marriage and trading your daughters for goats and such.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: You can think of it via an evolutionary perspective to realise why this isn't true.

Prior to the 1800s, the average age a women would experience their first period was 16 years old, much higher than today. Prime baby-making time would come several years after that, around 20 years old. Looking at hunter-gather societies, we can see that the average age a women would have their first child was around 19-20 years. This is probably why men are most attracted to 20 year old women and less their own age. Thus, people having children younger were more likely to die off, so marrying off younger was also more likely to die off.

Since you are more likely to die from pregnancy at younger ages, it became the social norm to have a child, and thus get married, around peak fertility and production time. Most people married in the 20s.

The main reason some thing that younger marriages were common is because in some societies, marriage was often (especially among the rich) a political contract done to ensure wealth gained or kept wealth. Your parents would then arrange a contract so that the two being married would gain something out of it (land, money, an important name, ect), which often involved marrying them off young. Consummation still didn't happen until a few years after marriage, though. Well, usually, at least.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: A big reason is education and economics. Because people became more educated and went to college to fulfill jobs, they had kids later in life. Additionally, people did not need to have kids to help with chores on farms like they did in the Middle Ages. Therefore, the accepted age of sex and marriage rose to meet the economy.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: It's a shift in how long we live and the different parts of life. Our economy also plays a role. People live longer so there is more time and many struggle to make it on their own before their mid-20's now, so that adds to it.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: It's important to keep in mind that it wasn't as though the entire world was Western Europe during the middle ages; there were a great many variances in customs, culture, and law with respect to age of marriage, whether married women could work, dowries, etc.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: During France's Golden Age, wealthy and upper-middle class people didn't marry until their mid-to-late 20s. More money = more opportunities = less of a desire to settle down.

People still wanna bone and it's always most culturally appropriate when you're married.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Because it's about love nowadays, not forwarding the bloodlines/reproduction as in the past.  Love is about an emotional connection and it is really weird when a 40 year old man is emotionally connected to a 13 year old girl.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: I'm convinced it has to do with being an adult. An adult is someone who has learned enough to survive by their own.  Tribes and simple people can hit that level as a teen.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: 1. Marriage used to be more about politics and business than love. 

2. Our understanding of children has changed. We used to treat kids more like mini-adults.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Do you mean in western society? Many countries still marry, particularly women, very young.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: A lot of posts I am not going to bother to read before throwing this out there, sorry if I'm just saying the same thing. Another disclaimer, I'm painting with a vague brush.

Historically, it was about lineage.  With a wife wed early in her life, the husband stood a better chance of people believing the child was his(and indeed being his if she actually was a virgin). Even if they're not doing it, say if she's *really* young, he can monitor behavior and keep her in the house and away from other men, etc.  No longer the responsibility of the family that way, but of the husband(often easier because women were often married up, a farmer with a beautiful daughter could more or less sell her a little higher up the foodchain to richer familes, for example, the richer husband having the means to monitor as noted.)

Today, we have a variety of scientific tests to detect parentage, and little reason to maintain celibacy(eg for arranged marriages to make sure partners are virgins) except for contextual reasons like religion.

Fun fact: Liking females that young is somewhat hotly debated in psych fields.... whether or not it is a -phelia(can't recall which it is for people right at the cusp breeding age, and yes, there are a variety of them for several age ranges), or just a natural product of, if not evolution, only recently changed social norms.

Hard to classify it as a disease or disorder if there's precedent or reason for it to be a normal human drive.  From the opposing view, an attachement or desire for only specific ranges, often excluding one's own range, is seen as deviant.  Nevermind that a lot of very chronologically mature people really salivate over 20-somethings and not a lot else, a 40 year gap there is fine, but shift it back a few years.

Not trying to invalidate or condone whichever, just saying, there's a lot of back and forth, or at least there was last time I was reading stuff like the DSM and related papers.  Not quite as concrete as psychopathic murderers having a screw loose at any rate.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Well, It seems to me that since the dawn of literate society roughly 1000 years ago, and prior to that, since the dawn of civilization, education forms the bedrock of society.

So any kind of trades such as writing, crafts, woodworking, metalworking all take some degree of apprenticeship, far better to have your daughter marry and apprentice or someone closer to earning money than not.

The idea that your daughter should have a good provider as a husband goes back all the way, I'm sure. 

So while kids fooling around and getting pregnant happens today as it did tens of thousands of years ago, but tribal societies have taboos on this kind of thing for a reason - who wants a bunch of underage moms having to work their asses off while the good looking football player/scout/foot-solider moves from town to town hooking up and leaving a trail of irresponsibility in his wake. 

Now with the modern age, say roughly 400 years ago forward, being more formally educated becomes increasingly necessary, to the point where you can find yourself in stiff competition with others for job opportunities well into your 20's. Training for harder, but less competitive jobs, (engineers, doctors/dentists, etc) have stringent educational requirements that require trainees to be educated even later into life).

This puts those groups at relative disadvantage up-front but with a potentially huge payout in terms of regular income later in life. 

So in actuality, the situation hasn't really changed much in the last 10,000 years.

- having kids before you are educated was probably always a bad idea - creating an uphill battle for all concerned.

- having kids later was for many centuries a wiser idea.

A sad post-script , is that in the modern age, unfortunately many professions now involve so much work and time-investment, such that those high-paying jobs have turned into a true disadvantage, family wise, because participants are so busy they can't date or have kids, so now the highest income levels are reserved for those without kids.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Here is something I have always thought:  Religion was the overwhelming psychological tool, law enforcement, ultimate authority and regulator of life hundreds of years ago. The daily struggle just to survive had to have been the main focus of every one except nobility. I don't think parents them were less concerned with the welfare of their children, but were seemingly more concerned with the social perception of "goodness and virtue". When you add in the financial burden of children and the lack of "daycare" in a world that demanded huge workloads of the women (cooking, gardening, household chores, care of elderly or infant family members, etc) it comes as no surprise to me that many a mother or father did not have time to make sure that 12 year old children were not beginning to experiment with their unfolding sexuality.  People were much closer to the land and animal life, children were more exposed to bodily functions and natural life cycles. The great mysteries of life played out everyday in front of their eyes. I think parents encouraged early marriages as a way to lessen their parental responsibilities and to ensure that their children did not become sexually active outside the bounds of "holy matrimony". Done and done. They chose the best spouse they could aspire to by wealth or potential fertility and sent the children into the world.  Just my own idea.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: The Victorian age still hasn't left us.

I think it boils down to this.  Many people are irresponsible.  Irresponsible people should _never_ have sex.  Since we can't kill them all, a compromise is, we teach them not to have sex until they are at least 18.  Which doesn't work.

Meanwhile, the responsible people were never the problem.  They should be encouraged to have sex as often as they like... even as teenagers.  And have kids in their 20s.  (Revolutionary).  That is how it used to be.  

Yet... today's social teachings weigh heavily on the responsible youth.  That males are only capable of rape.  That females who have sex are destined to get pregnant, and an STD will ruin their life.  So, a lot of these people grow up alone and maladjusted.

We still have a lot of problems, as a society, talking about the human body, and normal sexual interactions.  And by the way, normal sex includes a lot of relations are, today, considered "inappropriate."  There are so many "rules" it is dizzying.  And the only people who follow the rules are the responsible ones who weren't the problem.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Actually, the age of sex isn't much different unless you live in the US.

The US has a much higher age requirement for sex to be legal than most European countries.  For instance, the age of consent for sex in Germany is 14 years old. There is a caveat about a person over 21 "exploiting the 14 year old's sexual self-determination" (whatever that means) but any complaint made against the adult must be made by the 14 year old. 

Other factors are nationalized education and also child labor laws. 

Children who aren't working can't support themselves. Fortunately they are also required to go to school so they are on their parents' dime. They can't very well be getting married and starting families when they are still in school and unable to work. 

Of course, some do and even today that's very unpopular for them to do.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: It relates to carrying capacity and endemic warfare.

In band or tribe level societies, populations are well below carrying capacity and genetic groups compete against each other through net population growth.

In industrialized societies, populations are much closer to carrying capacity and so there is not only less of a need for higher reproduction, it can actually be problematic.  In such societies, the age of marriage is delayed as a means to decrease population growth and non-productive sexual behavior (homosexuality) becomes less and less taboo..or even encouraged.

It is not about individual choice, it is about a group attempting super-organically (see Kroeber) to maintain an optimal population level.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: In the middle ages, people's thoughts and actions were heavily influenced by the church. If you did not comply to the uniform standard of living, you were shunned in the social realm and possibly punished by death.

Today, people have freedom of though and expression. There is no "super power" that dictates how you should live your life or when you should get married or have children. There are still social pressures, but this does not compare to the dictator-like authority that the church had throughout most the middle ages.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Females become capable of pregnancy quite early, which lead medieval nobility that wanted heirs to marry their daughters off as soon as possible. Problem is, early pregnancy has a lot of terrible side effects, like hormonal disbalance, physiological changes, all that stuff. In modern world we understand those things a lot better, so we are more conscious about early sexual relationships. 

Well, that's what I think, at least.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: isnt it because of women's rights, affluence, and education? 
women have more rights now than they ever did before so they can attend school, this pushes back the date of their pregnancy/ marriage because they are focused on school, and they can also get a job so they don't need a man as much.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Yeah my parents were an odd ball couple, my mom was 15 and my dad was 26 when they got married, and this was only 26 years ago. At the time my mom was in Iraq and my dad in the US, but we are Christians and marrying young isn't our norm.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Humanism and a strengthening divide between "children" and "adults".  As opposed to times where children worked to help support their families, children now are kept 'innocent' with child labor laws and are meant to focus on educAtion before joining the work force. 

"Childhood" is a relatively modern term.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Basically young marriage happens when parents treat their kids like cash to buy property or friendship. They married them off young not because they thought they matured earlier but because they knew full well they were not mature and would therefore have to do what they were told.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Demands of economy. Need to impose longer period of discipline and education on young people to prepare them for modern capitalist economy. Before a few years ago, even literacy was unnecessary. You can join productive class as kids, and marry as soon as you become reproductive.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Is this tied to social norms influenced by and reflected by statutory rape laws? It seems acceptable for an old guy to marry an 18 year old, but really fucked up if it's below that.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: In the play, Juliet is 15 and her mother is 29, and her father needs a walking stick and uses a sword that's at least 75 years out of fashion.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Once a girl is done with school she might as well start getting pregnant. It still happens today, it's not ancient history.
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: People were usually dead by 34 and why would you wanna raise kid that isn't yours as the houses heir?
question: Why is the accepted age of sexual relation/marriage so vastly different today than it was in the Middle Ages? Is it about life expectancy? What causes this societal shift? answer: Marriage is itself a societal construct, so it makes sense that it would evolve with society.
question: If you could, somehow get to the edge of the known universe what'd we see past it and could we enter into it? answer: There is no edge to the known universe anymore than there is an edge to the surface of the earth. Can you go further north than the north pole?
question: If you could, somehow get to the edge of the known universe what'd we see past it and could we enter into it? answer: If you are lets say the edge of the Universe (if there is an edge, lets assume it does) which would probably be the shell of the bubble then you cannot see anything outside. Because there is nothing outside for you to see. Nothing exists outside the bubble so there is no light coming from there for you to see anything. The absence of light is blackness and that is what you'll probably see.
question: If you could, somehow get to the edge of the known universe what'd we see past it and could we enter into it? answer: You'd see more universe.

When you look far away in space you also look back in time. We see Andromeda as it was 2.5 million years ago because it is 2.5 million light years away. Beings in Andromeda would see Earth as it was back then as well.

When you look at the blackness between the stars you are looking back in time at the Big Bang, or more accurately at an extremely redshifted wall of hot hydrogen.

What we see as the last scattering surface has probably since condensed into galaxies, stars, planets, and maybe intelligent life. The point where Earth will be is just on the edge of a fogbank of hot hydrogen to them. 

The universe probably doesn't have edges. If it does, they are likely moving away from you at functionally infinite speeds. If you went beyond the edge you might wind up in a region of [false vacuum](_URL_0_). The ELI5 version is that everything would be very hot, physics would not work like you expect with all the forces being dangerously strong, and you'd be killed instantly.

False vacuum is unstable. It expands fast, but it decays slightly less fast into true vacuum - aka the kind of empty space that doesn't necessarily kill you in which Earth sits. There may be other bubbles in this false vacuum, other universes, like hollow spots in a block of Swiss. This is speculative; remember we can't actually see anything past the hydrogen.
question: If you could, somehow get to the edge of the known universe what'd we see past it and could we enter into it? answer: You would technically be able to keep going as long as the Universe is expanding, so theoretically what you'd see is the expansion of the Universe.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: It's not true, but the main claim is that swapping from gasoline-powered cars to electric cars in an area where electricity comes from coal-fired power plants is still producing pollution. While this is true, power plants are more efficient than internal combustion engines, are easier to modify or improve with filters etc, can be replaced by renewable electricity generation and are farther from population centers so fewer people are affected by the pollution.

There's also a claim the mining and manufacturing involved in battery production is considerably polluting, but every single study indicates that the mining and manufacturing of the rest of the car (the frame, doors, panels, windows etc) is far, far, far greater than the batteries. So adding a huge battery bank still doesn't really change the pollution from car manufacturing.

EDIT: 

For my claim that electric cars don't pollute more in general:
 > Figure 2 displays the results [...]  As can be seen, all electrified vehicles have lower emissions than the reference case. [...] The reference vehicle corresponds to the 2012 EU fleet target for tailpipe emissions of sold cars. Source: [Nordelf *et al* 2014](_URL_1_)

For my claim that batteries aren't the majority of the pollution from electric cars:

 >  The share of the total environmental impact of E-mobility caused by the battery (measured in Ecoindicator 99 points) is 15%. The impact caused by the extraction of lithium for the components of the Li-ion battery is less than 2.3% (Ecoindicator 99 points) Source: [Notter *et al* 2010](_URL_0_)

In Notter *et al* 2010, look at Figure 2 to see how the battery isn't even the majority of the manufacturing impact, compared to the glider and drive-train. I'll admit to exaggerating when I said the rest of the car is "far, far, far greater than the batteries".

See also section 5.3.2 of [Nordelf *et al* 2014](_URL_1_)
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: The production, recycling, and disposal of batteries is hugely damaging to the environment if not handled very carefully.

Most companies that do it in the US or Western Europe do alright, but companies that outsource to China and other places without effective environmental laws are causing huge problems.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: It's more just a soundbite that makes people question electric cars. It's hard to refute it because obviously it depends on:

- Your particular model of car and battery system
- Where you get your electricity from
- How and where you drive

Probably a particular model of electric vehicle could pollute more than a particular model of gasoline powered car, when charged by a particular source of electricity and driven in a certain way.

Such soundbites are just cheap shots that distract us from the fact that electric vehicles are the future in most cases and the sooner we switch to them and destroy the value of oil the better for _everyone_*

*everyone except the Saudis
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: It can be true, but it depends on the car and what type of fossil fuel you are talking about.   

Im going to just rip off wikipedia since I'm lazy... "Typical thermal efficiency for utility-scale electrical generators is around 33% for coal and oil-fired plants, and 56  60% (LHV) for combined-cycle gas-fired plants."  [Wikipedia](_URL_3_)

So if you had a old school coal power plant you are going to get about 33% of the energy out of that coal.

Modern combustion engines can reach higher efficiently levels, around 38%-40%. Again, stealing...   

 "Toyota has now developed a new gasoline engine which it claims has a maximum thermal efficiency of 38 percent--greater than any other mass-produced combustion engine.", "Diesels are typically higher--approaching 40 percent in some cases."  [Link](_URL_2_)

So yes, internal combustion engines can be more efficient than electric vehicles, but it all depends on the power plant and the car.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: People have mentioned the disposal and manufacturing of batteries but the other part of it is the generation of electricity. Electricity is not an energy source like oil is, electricity is just a storage and delivery method. To generate electricity you need to do something like burn coal or gas and the US has a lot of coal plants. Using electric cars burns less gasoline but then drives up demand of coal and gas plants to burn more so you are just moving the problem somewhere else. 

Of course we have more methods of generating power like wind, solar, hydro electric and nuclear and even with out, it's better to maintain one large coal plant to burn as efficiently as possible opposed to 1 million small gas engines.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: There's a few ways to look at it:

Air pollution:

Electric cars have effectively zero point-of-use air emissions, but the electricity comes from somewhere, and depending on the area it may be coal or oil fired power plants. The logic is that "they're burning stuff anyways, so it's got to be just as bad".

Lets assume you're living in an area fueled purely by coal power.

Efficiency of a traditional coal power is 33%. Some articles I looked up cited that new plants can hit 40%, but we're sticking with the 33% assumption. That's pretty low.

A combined cycle gas fired power plant can hit 56 - 60%, and that's still burning fossil fuels.

Between 2005 and 2014, the US posted an average loss of 6% in power transmission. So the power lines can be estimated at 94% efficient.

Electric cars themselves have an efficiency between 59 - 62% according to a few articles I found. That can get better though. Electric motors can hit about 88-90% efficiency easily, so the losses are coming from the batteries. Regenerative braking also helps quite a bit. We'll stick with 60% though.

Efficiencies are multiplicative, so the efficiency of an electric car in this scenario is 
0.60 x 0.94 x 0.33 = 0.186 or 18.6%.

That's not great by any means, but it's also a worst case coal-burning scenario. I live in Ontario, where we've completely eliminated coal power plants. Most of our energy comes from nuclear, solar, wind, and hydro (Niagara Falls).

So what's the efficiency of an internal combustion engine? 18-20%, and that's at the car. It's also affected by driving habits. It's lower when not operating at a continuous load. They also require an idle load just to stay running. We leave our vehicles idling a lot too. Electric cars don't need to idle, they only need to power the peripherals. Electric cars can do away with transmissions well. Less moving parts = less losses.

Overall, it's not far off to assume that from gas tank to wheels your combustion engine nets you 15-18% efficiency.

That's lower than the electric car that actually burns coal.

If you live in an area with wind or solar power, efficiency doesn't even compare anymore because it's bot based on fossil fuel burning. An electric car charged by solar power has zero fossil fuel related emissions.

**Tl:dr**: Even with coal power, the electric car is more efficient.

When it comes to materials of construction, that's where pollution can differ. Batteries aren't perfect, and they're not easy to produce and dispose of. That's an issue that the world is still researching.

The good news is that battery technology is still thriving and growing. There's lots of room for improvement still, whereas combustion motors have pretty well plateaued.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: Maybe the same idea as the recycling bin causes more harm than good. How many xtra trucks on the road now because of it? How much pollution do lithium mines produce? Where do all the old batteries go when technology creates new ones?
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: If we switch on a massive scale to electric cars a lot of people are going to be effected in the petroleum and car manufacturing industries. Despite the fact that it will be better for the environment. Man, as a collective has a hard time acting on abstract issues. Climate change, while most certainly happening is something that most people do not want to a) believe is happening and b) don't understand/want to understand how and why it is happening. 
Therefore it is easy for large corps and lobby groups to poison the minds of large swaths of society to maintain the status quo. 
There are many examples of tech that would completely change society and the way in which we interact with our environment but the immediate effects would be unemployment and not a single politician is going to risk loosing an election suggesting the right thing.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: First of all: no, it's not true. [Electric cars do indeed produce less emissions than gas cars, no matter what electrical grid you plug them into to charge them up.](_URL_4_) 

The _theory_ was that fossil-powered electric plants produce more CO_2 to generate that electricity than what would be given off by just putting gasoline into a conventional car. This theory sounds appealing to a lot of people invested in the current car industry who are clutching at any argument they can to avoid change, But, again, it's important to emphasize that this theory is bullshit.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: I'm writing this because too many arguments here seem to ignore the parts of a gas car you no longer need. And like everything else, the facts are all part rubbish, part true, and part outdated. 

Manufacturing engines and transmissions is a rather well defined process - neither tech has changed too much in the past century (yes, we've added afterteatment and other various efficiency improvements, but engine's are still suck-squeeze-bang-blow and transmissions are still a bunch of gears).

Manufacturing for electric motors has certainly been around for awhile, but the recent interest in electrification has driven significant development in motor technology. Different materials, different manufacturing processes, etc. It's had around 10 years of refinement. Similar story with battery tech - it's been around for awhile, but the recent surge in interest is pushing material scientists to find sustainable, high-efficiency battery techs. 

So right now, it's possible. New electric cars probably do cause more pollution than gas cars. But that won't be the case for much longer (in fact, I'd be interested in seeing a comparative study after Tesla's model 3 plant has been running for a year or two). Battery recycling will get better as well (which I admittedly haven't looked at, and assumed was a 'green' process). 

But all of that is the manufacturing process. After that's done, you can easily find studies that show the carbon emissions of running your electric car (even when sourced with energy from coal power) is far cleaner than a gas car. It's much easier handle emissions at a fixed site (things like weight don't matter), where you're producing large quantities of power, and load changes happen relatively slowly. 

It's also significantly cheaper per mile than gasoline, even if your power costs are on the higher end.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: Electric cars are not pollution free. The electricity has to come from somewhere, and in many cases it comes from power plants using fuel like coal which is highly destructive to the environment. The argument is that the lack of tailpipe emissions is offset by the increased load placed on the electrical grid. I'm not sure that there have been any reliable studies done to compare the impact of electrical cars versus gas cars in these terms. It's not a one to one comparison because the byproducts are different and electrical energy comes from a variety of sources including environmentally friendly sources. There is no environmentally friendly source of fossil fuels.

The other major argument is that lithium mining is highly destructive, and in some people's *opinion* it is more destructive than fossil fuel production. Lithium mines are environmental disasters, that is a fact, but again it's not a one to one comparison. Fossil fuels and lithium mines are both bad for the environment. 

Finally, many will argue that the manufacturing process still releases pollution and causes damage...which is 100% true. But, outside of the powertrain (which we already covered above), gas cars are built which the same processes and the same materials as electric cars for the most part so this point is all but nullified.

Note: these are not necessarily my personal opinions, these are the points other people make when defending or condemning electric cars.

The important thing to remember is that while electric cars are a great step forward, they are not the final solution. They may pollute less, but they still pollute. Buying an electric car alone will not solve the problem.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: This comment is pretty late, OP, but maybe you'll see it. The batteries in an electric car offer something new to our world: a battery bank that can be used to store energy from the power grid, a grid which had very little integrated storage designed into that system. By storing energy in your auto, you can help mitigate the use of VERY pollution-heavy sources of energy that are only used during peak hours of demand. Sell the energy you stored during low demand at peak times and you and your neighbors will reduce ground and GHG pollution. The grid in the USA is designed around these few hours of peak usage. Shaving those peaks is a really vital environmental goal: we can get rid of terrible, old polluting coal plants that are maintained simply for those few hours of extreme weather. The third corner of the triangle is renewable, sustainable power sources: wind, solar and to some extent tidal, nuclear and hydro. When you bring together clean energy, grid storage, and the tech for storing  &  using that energy based on market conditions ("smart grid"), you have a powerful triangular relationship that leads to a reduction in pollution compared to petrol AND a more stable grid that is less vulnerable.

Assessing electric vs gas cars in isolation of the rest of our power story will make one blind to the incredible opportunity we have by having a diffused, robust system via battery banks. MOBILE GRID STORAGE FTW!
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: _URL_5_

This article (it's long but pretty effing amazing) does a really good job describing why, although it seems like you're just reassigning fossil fuel combustion to a different level of energy generation, you're actually shifting the entire system towards more efficient energy sources.

If you don't have time to read the whole thing, scroll down to An Angry Giant, then look for the Long Tailpipe Myth. Urban does an excellent job refuting this myth in a super accessible way.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: Ok people now there is no science in my answer, but its coming from an ethical standpoint. Say for arguments sake they do pollute more, in my mind its still a way better trade off than the continuation of funding the Saudi Arab regime and ather middle eastern countrys that use are money to supress there people further there regimes and fund terrorist. This is just my .02 cents
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: This claim began with hybrids, and is completely valid in that case, and is based mostly around energy expenditure of manufacturing. Since you have to produce 2 systems of locomotion, there is a large increase in energy expended to manufacture the vehicle, and the very marginal increases in efficiency never overtake that extra initial energy expenditure. Full electric cars are more efficient than internal combustion powered vehicles, as others have said because you can produce energy more efficiently in large scale in power plants. Your average IC engine is around 15%-20% efficient, while even the worst coal powerplants are in the 35%+ range and most are in the 40-45% range. So even with transmission losses, electric cars are more efficient, and since they only have one dedicated locomotion system, they are on par for energy of manufacture.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: It reminds me of cloth vs disposable diapers. We decided to use cloth (had kids about 5 years ago) and we went to a meeting at the local "green" baby store to learn about them.

The woman that owned the store was talking about how there is some debate, basically is it better for the environment to manufacture and fill landfills with disposables, or to use a lot of water washing the diapers.

She said there are studies proving each, if you want the ones saying cloth diapers are better you look at the studies paid for by the cloth companies, and if you want disposables to be better look at the studies paid for by disposable diapers.

Modern science in a nutshell.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: It's just BS. The claim is that most electrical energy is produced in powerplants using coal as energy source, and thus still being driven  indirectly by fossile fuels the same as gasoline, but the reality is that the energy production in a powerplant is much more efficient than the power production in a car engine and therefore the electrical car is still much less polluting than a conventional combustion driven car. Also is worth noting that as more energy is harvested by windmills and solar plants the less will the pollution foot print of the electrical car be.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: Here is key takeaway:  "Yes, in both cases the electric car is better, but only by a tiny bit. Avoiding 3 tons of CO2 would cost less than $27 onEurope's emissions trading market. The annual benefit is about the cost of a cup of coffee. Yet U.S. taxpayersspend up to $7,500 in tax breaksfor less than $27 of climate benefits. That's a bad deal."

Source : _URL_6_
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: I am late to the party. But, also, take in consideration that in many countries people do not maintain car properly. For example, it is many types cheaper to cut filter and continue to drive than buying a new one. Technical inspection in my country doesn't give any notice about this issue. In case of electricity, plant will be 100% properly maintained and in one place.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: If the electricity to power those cars is all made using coal fired or oil fired power plants, then it basically trades one pollutant for the other.  Even with nuclear power, which is technically pollutant free powers them, you still have radioactive waste and waste water to deal with.
question: People claim electric cars pollute more than gasoline cars, if true how ? answer: somehow true, maybe because of the batteries. where and how to dispose these batteries specially if it contain harmful substances.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: The goal of truck weighing stations is to prevent truckers from going over weight.

However, they don't need to check *every* truck *every* time it uses the road to accomplish this goal. All they need to do is check enough trucks on enough trips that the risk of getting caught + penalties deters truckers from going over weight.

It's no different from speed laws. You don't station a police car every mile to ensure no one ever speeds. You just have police catch enough random people so that most drivers don't speed (too much).

Also remember that it costs a fair bit of money to have a truck weigh station open - it's not like station a police car by the road, you have to hire staff and keep the lights on. So the government wants to keep them open as little as possible.

Truckers also want them open as little as possible because they slow their trips even when they're not over weight. With everyone involved not wanting them open, they err on the side of not being open.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: That's funny I drove from providence to Montreal today and noticed the same thing. I know weigh stations are only open on occasion to check trucks, but it's true that these just seemed abandoned.

In Canada even when they're closed, it's obvious they're open sometimes, as they're not entirely dilapidated and falling apart. In the US I couldn't tell if they were just in disrepair or permanently closed.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: As someone that owns a trucks fleet in Montreal, let me tell you that in Quebec, they are not always open, but open enough to get on my nerves :)
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: Theyre expensive to have open and unnecessary a lot of the time. That being said, drive through a state like California. Theyll be open 99% of the time.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: I live in the West. Have seen weight stations actively used in NV, and Ca. Could be volume? The times you go, they aren't open due to low need?
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: I live within 15 miles of two stations and they are almost always open. They even check water craft for invasive species. I do live next the the ID/WA state line so one station is in Idaho the other in Washington. Only really see them closed on holidays.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: In my state the troopers now have portable station in their trucks so they are kind of obsolete. (At least around here.)
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: When are you driving past these weigh stations? Is it mostly on a weekend? Most truckers arent hauling on the weekend if they can help it. Ive seen weigh stations open on non-holiday Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: If you download the Trucker Path app, you can check the status of weigh stations and also check to see what days and hours of the day they are generally open.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: I have a question too. When the station IS open, what's preventing the trucker from skipping it? Is someone watching the road for truckers?
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: Banning is ALWAYS open. If Banning closes, I'm going to go ahead and assume the end is here.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: Hi, trucker here just thought I'd chime in. For the most part weigh stations are only open 9-5 on weekdays though this can vary very regulary. Most in state stations will be closed 80% of the time while the ones you see on state boarders, about 5 miles from state line on either side, are open more often. They aren't just checking weights though, they are also looking for lights out or any run down looking truck will cause an inspection.  Like someone mentioned weigh in motion is a big thing as well as pre-pass which is based on csa score (think company report card) higher score less trucks pulled in.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: A lot of them are mobile now. Large SUVs have portable scales. 4 small scales that they place in front of each tire and have you pull forward. Wired to the trucks computer and they get a very accurate weight. All of these stops arent just checking the weight though. They check EVERYTHING!! Lights, suspension, air breaks, paperwork, license etc. In my experience smaller trucks get picked on because the inspection is less work. F450 landscaping truck doesnt have air breaks so they dont have to do a full inspection and get dirty. Thats based solely on my experiences though.
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: If you can, try to get the book Lifes Imponderables. Its a lovely time that answers lots of questions like when do fish sleep? and why do dogs have wet noses?. 

This was one of the questions the answered :)
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: Ive only seen one open once on a trip recently and was always curious about it.

Can anyone tell me the purpose of these stations? Is it a safety thing?
question: Why are trucking weigh stations ALWAYS closed?[removed] answer: They arent closed where Im from! Granted I encourage safe driving but when I have to stop at the same one every time it gets old
question: what is red and blue shift?I don't understand what this stuff means. if someone could give me the simplest answer (I know it's a complicated topic) that'd be very helpful!  answer: Ever notice the sound of a car or train is higher pitched when it's heading toward you, and becomes lower as it goes away? Light does the same thing. If you look at an object that's heading away from you quickly enough, it will appear more red than it actually is. If something is heading towards you, it will appear more blue.

This becomes very useful for astronomers; if you know a certain object's composition, you can tell how fast it's moving by the color change.
question: what is red and blue shift?I don't understand what this stuff means. if someone could give me the simplest answer (I know it's a complicated topic) that'd be very helpful!  answer: Have you ever listened to a train coming torwards you blaring it's horn? Notice how the pitch gets high when it's approaching you? That happens when the sound waves from the horn get compressed in front of it because of the train moving. When the train passes, the pitch becomes lower for the same reason. Here is an illustration that describes what I'm saying. [Image](_URL_0_)

Because light sorta behaves like a wave just like sound, the same exact thing happens when things giving off light move. But instead of the pitch changing, we see the color change. If it's moving away, the light waves gets stretched, so it moves torwards the red side of the spectrum (redshift). When it's moving torwards us, the waves gets compressed and move torwards the blue side of the sepctrum (blue shift).
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: One thing people haven't mentioned is immigration. Despite claims otherwise, immigration was one of the main reasons for the UK voting to leave the EU.

Countries in the EU have to let people from other EU countries live and work there with no restrictions. This has resulted in a large number of people coming from less wealthy countries such as Poland coming to live in the wealthier ones including the UK.

Some people don't like this because they think these immigrants will take advantage of the benefit system and not contribute to society. Although this is statistically not true in the average case.

Other people don't like this because they feel they are taking jobs that British people could have done instead, leading to greater unemployment. However now many British businesses and organisations are likely to face a shortage of workers.

And finally some people don't like how society has changed due to immigration. There are many more non-English speakers than there used to be, and there are lots of shops around catering to various immigrant groups. This makes some people feel like it's "not their country any more".
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: I would argue that the absolute total devastation of WW2, the Iron curtain and looming threat of the Soviet Union (and unity of hate for it for countries that were under it) and greater integration and cooperation (e.g. NATO) did more to unite Europe than the EU ever did. The EU didn't really start expanding into more than a trade union until the 80s, when the threat of conflict between European countries (e.g. France and Germany) was long since non existant. 

The early iteration of the EU even helped to continue to divide Europe - France got very pissy at the idea of letting the UK join.
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: Various factors contributed to the actual problematic state of the EU, these are, in my mind, the main factors:

-Forming a monetary union before forming a real political union. Big mistakes, the monetary policy comes from the political guidelines of a state, non the opposite!

-People ignoring the EU politics before it was too late - a few country gave a seat in the EU structure to failed politicians as a consolation prize, you can find some very embarassing example from various countries, literally not knowing what they are talking about and not even showing up at meetings. Countries that sent more intelligent people there obviously are having more influnce on the chioces being made, this annoys the others (i know, LOL)

-Massive mishandling of the immigration problem. Denying and suppressing discussion about real, hard, mathematical facts about immigrations (such as crime rates, already high unemplyment in those age groups, etc etc) branding them as "racist" and "ignorant" is, as every extremism-laden point of wiew, not a smart solution to a problem. This is why we are getting (and needing, since they are the only voices outside of the choir) the so called populist-parties.

-Excessive interest in the baking system and an academical-only approach to problems, while ignoring peoples` problems. We are bored to hell of having banks "robbed" by executives and having the EU stepping in to save them and in the meantime proposing idiotic solutions to stagnating economies such as raise sale taxes (yes, you did read that correctly)

-No long term vision. You are considered a "good" economy if you do not raise you debt of more than 3%  a year. Can you see where taht will lead in a zero-inflation zone?

-Last but not leas, scapegoating: the media (that honestly in a few countries is in a pathetic condition, like here in italy we are quite low in the freedom of expression ranking, check out wiki..) blames all the state`s problem on the EU. Everything bad is the EU`s fault. 


This said, the more literate of us are aware that a continental union is FUNDAMENTAL to keep Europe peaceful and rich, still THIS particular union is badly in need of a reform.
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: It's important to understand that there is a difference between EU the ideal and EU the organisation.

Most people support EU the ideal. The broad fellowship and brotherhood of peaceful European nations? Being part of the bigger community and all working together for a strong and successful Europe? Who could be opposed to that?

But in practise, the EU is perceived by many as a bloated, useless, gravy train beauracracy that bogs everything down in useless red tape. The sort of beauracracy that is more interested in writing 100 page reports about how you are allowed to grow your turnips than in actually addressing major issues like war and immigration. The sort of beauracracy where people work 4 hours a day and 20 weeks a year, and spend the rest of their time eating smoked salmon in their corporate box at the races or the opera.

(I'm not saying any of this is necessarily true...but the "rich pompous lazy fat EU beauracrat" is an ingrained stereotype)

So it's not so much "I hate Europe". Its more of a "I'm sick of those useless fat Frogs in Brussels giving me all these stupid rules, let's handle our own destiny" kind of attitude.
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: The EU has introduce many, many rules describing what the people, businesses, and governments in the various member states may do. Rules are usually there for good reason, but still, there are always some people who don't like any rule.

Also, the EU has allowed extensive international migration. Some people don't like having lots of immigrants around.

Also, some of the hate is actually for the Euro rather than for the EU.
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: I think 'hatred' is the wrong word. Saying I hate the EU is a bit like saying I hate Globalisation while still walking around with an IPhone chewing on some exotic fruit. The EU is simply too massive, complex and fundamental for people to 'hate'. People, I think, don't really 'understand' the EU, and that is where this 'hatred' comes from.

Brexit is a prime example of people voting against their own self-interests. Those that stood most to loose - in areas such as Wales, the North-east and Cornwall - were the biggest recipients of EU development money, yet they voted overwhelmingly in favour of leaving. Those that stood most to gain are the money men and politicians, and these guys both understand and hate the EU, for good reason.
 
The Proprietors of the most widely read newspapers in the UK might be a good place to first identify any 'hatred'. European Union rules have often stood in their and their friends in The City of London's way. Take for example EU wide reform proposals since the financial crash, and more recently the Panama Papers (in which many Brexit backers were implicated). These people have long found the UK government an easy place to lobby for their own interests. Rupert Murdoch, when asked why he was so opposed to the European Union, replied:

"When I go into Downing Street they do what I say; when I go to Brussels they take no notice."

Murdoch's press, along with even more unsavoury Fleet Street newspapers, have had a long history of whipping up hatred against whomever they felt stood in the way of their interests. The Fleet Street press, IMO, had more to do with any hatred that existed as opposed to anything else.

I don't think this is at all conspiratorial. I am answering the question of 'hatred'. And any hatred that does exist must emanate from the gutter press that blights the UK so badly.
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: As a Brit, it's primarily because they misunderstood what it is. The tabloids print a lot of propaganda such as them preventing us using our own laws, costing the country a lot of money and forcing immigrants upon us. The truth is that during the referendum not much made it into the tabloids about how much good it does. 48% of Brits didn't want to leave it and the vote was over 18s only. If 16+ had been allowed to vote it is massively unlikely the U.K. Would be leaving.
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: One of the reasons is that EU tries to make EU as an united nation. EU has already huge authority over it's member countries. Some unknown force at Brussels is telling you that you can't grow more than X amounts of crop/year as an example. EU should not have an authority over the laws of any nation.



Then many people does not like Euro at all, since it actually has hurt the economy of smaller countries than actually helped them.
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: In the EU-27 you need to find a comprise between all the members or the industry leading standard gets introduced. Anyway you can't make everyone happy especially because you have a wide gap in the understanding of what freedom, liberalism, democracy and so on means.
There is also something called "the winner takes it all" in economy. So the industry leaders like german car manufacturers push other car manufacturers aside. Thus unemployment
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: The countries that hate the EU already live in peace and stability since WW2.  They don't want to foot the bill to improve other countries.
question: Why do so many European countries show hatred towards the European Union (like the UK), even though it has lead to the most peaceful and stable period in European history?[removed] answer: While the EU has some advantages many people suffer especially from richer countries, as poor peopl can now easily take their wealth
question: How do hydrographics work?I've seen lots of videos of people dipping various objects in water with some sort of design, like army helmets in camo, and the object comes out with an awesome print on it but nothing in their arms or anything. How do the designs transfer from the water to the object so perfectly? answer: It's the same process as painting anything. You need to prepare the surface for adhesion between the print and the surface. You actually have to lay down a basecoat color before dipping. You lay the pring on the dipping tank, spray with an activator, slowly dip the object into the tank, swirl around and take it out. Once the print is dry you can then clearcoat it. 

It takes a lot of practice to get the print to come out perfect every time. Flat objects are easy, objects with a lot of curves, holes, or grooves make it harder to produce. you can run into problems with stretching the print out and distorting it or getting air bubbles that will leave a void.
question: How do hydrographics work?I've seen lots of videos of people dipping various objects in water with some sort of design, like army helmets in camo, and the object comes out with an awesome print on it but nothing in their arms or anything. How do the designs transfer from the water to the object so perfectly? answer: the "paint" is pre-printed on a special sheet. that sheet is then placed on the surface  of the tank. the pre-printed sheet becomes pliable when activator is applied. then the object lowered in collects the sheet of paint on it. kind of like a temporary tattoo then clear coat is applied to keep the image. video probably shows it better then i can explain =p




_URL_0_

* edit second more detailed video 

_URL_1_

*addition details for clarity
question: How do hydrographics work?I've seen lots of videos of people dipping various objects in water with some sort of design, like army helmets in camo, and the object comes out with an awesome print on it but nothing in their arms or anything. How do the designs transfer from the water to the object so perfectly? answer: Ok ill try to keep it simpe as possible. 1 it absolutely gets on your hands and arms. The print starts off as a "film with an ink printed pattern on it. You lay the film on top of the water and then spray it with a chemical that "activates" the print basically turning it back into a liquid ink layingon the surface of the water. Dip your prepped part into this and the ink will adhere to the part. You can see lots of examples on my instagram @legacybuiltdrones
question: How do hydrographics work?I've seen lots of videos of people dipping various objects in water with some sort of design, like army helmets in camo, and the object comes out with an awesome print on it but nothing in their arms or anything. How do the designs transfer from the water to the object so perfectly? answer: Not an explanation but if you want a fun DIY crafting experience that mimics this sort of thing, try paper marbling - you float paints on water then dunk stuff (paper, mostly) in it. 

 _URL_2_ but mine always looked cooler than theirs.
question: How do hydrographics work?I've seen lots of videos of people dipping various objects in water with some sort of design, like army helmets in camo, and the object comes out with an awesome print on it but nothing in their arms or anything. How do the designs transfer from the water to the object so perfectly? answer: You can think of the paint as floating on top of the water. When the object hits the surface it hits paint first. Since it has no adhesion with the water it sticks to the object. Easy?
question: How do hydrographics work?I've seen lots of videos of people dipping various objects in water with some sort of design, like army helmets in camo, and the object comes out with an awesome print on it but nothing in their arms or anything. How do the designs transfer from the water to the object so perfectly? answer: I do hydrographic and looking to make it more of a career then a hobby. There is 3 layers to the "graphic" the first layer that makes contact with the water is a film that breaks down when it meets water. The next layer is the ink, the last layer is like glue. You need to spray on an activator to break it down. 

From there you dip the item in. The 3 "layers" and water keep the graphic together so if you go slow enough the graphic sticks together. This allows the graphic to wrap around edges. If you keep moving in one steady motion the graphic comes out looking good. 

Last but not least. This is ink and can be wiped off. You need to put a clear coat on after the part dries.
question: How do hydrographics work?I've seen lots of videos of people dipping various objects in water with some sort of design, like army helmets in camo, and the object comes out with an awesome print on it but nothing in their arms or anything. How do the designs transfer from the water to the object so perfectly? answer: In addition to the answers people have given, I was confused how it worked and a lot of really nice people helped me figure out how it worked. The comment chain here is definitely eli5!

_URL_3_
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: The Republican party would certainly not benefit from the move. Their target demographics tend to be wealthier, older, or both. In other words, people who do not especially need a national holiday to get off work, or who can afford to take a day off. Furthermore, it would allow the middle to lower class demographics more opportunities to vote, which on average would favor democrats, not republicans.

The Democrats could also potentially be harmed by such a move by admittedly more nebulous reasons. The largest one would be that the poor generally do want to work so that they can make more money for their day to day needs. Mandating a day off would negatively impact a large voting block for the democratic party, possibly driving their supporters away.

EDIT: Rather than responding to everyone, I'll just address some common complaints here:

1. I know it's illegal to prevent your employee from voting. That doesn't mean you have to pay them for the time they missed, which provides an economic incentive to stay at work.

2. I also know that not every rich person votes Republican and every poor person Democrat. These are general demographic trends among major voting blocks in each party. Enough people do fit in these categories that it becomes useful to examine how changing policies would impact these demographics.

3. In the US, you do not have to pay your employees on voting day or national holidays. Some people do, but it is by no means required.

4. The weekend has been suggested multiple times. I do not know what impact this would have. That's all I really have to say on the matter.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Elected officials are rarely excited about radically altering the composition of the electorate for the simple reason that it was *this composition* which elected them. 

This problem is so basic that the US Constitution includes a clause for assembling a whole new Constitutional Convention, if Congress and State Legislatures become to resistant to reform.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: This is a solved problem in Australia. Elections always happen on Saturdays.

(Postal voting and early voting booths are available if circumstances prevent you from showing up on a Saturday.)
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Early and absentee voting.  Most states have it, and it gives people weeks to vote, so there's no need for a holiday..
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because the idea of a 'one day' to vote is absurd and out dated. A better solution is to create a variety of voting channels (mail in, walk in, etc) and allow people to vote over a longer period of time. That way, people of all situations can find the time to participate.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Honestly I hate the idea of a national voting holiday for a couple reasons. 

1) It's more likely to turn into a long vacation weekend. "I can get a four day weekend just by taking a Monday off? Sign me up!"

2) Which day? We have more than one election every year. And arguably local elections have far more impact on people's lives than who's president.


It's far more important to extend the voting period to include multiple Saturdays and Sundays. And it would be far cheaper for local govt to pay overtime for a couple people working weekends than giving all employees a paid day.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Another factor is the fact that it won't likely lead to an increase in turnout. People don't typically go out on their days off and if they do it's certainly not going to be to go vote. The majority of people who don't vote don't do so because they don't have time but rather don't feel their votes matter. So making voting day a national holiday wouldn't likely make any large impacts on voter turnout. 

Edit: Here's some supporting evidence- _URL_0_
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Uk here. Our polls are open from 7:00 to 22:00, gives everybody the opportunity to vote. What time are they open in the US which would mean people couldn't because of work?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: What would it actually do? Just because something is a national holiday does not mean that any employer would be required to give anyone the day off. It would be largely symbolic and not really do anything to actually increase voting.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because we don't need it.  
  
Mail-In ballots are the way to go.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Just an opinion, and I know you're inbox is full of them, but what would it fucking matter?  MLK Day is a national holiday. President's day is a national holiday. Hell, thanksgiving is a national holiday. Now how many people do you know that still had to work in some form on any of those days. National holiday means more shoppers, drivers, and diners, so more "low skill" employees still have to bust their asses to meet demand.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Are you aware of the amount of people who not only would still have to work, it would become MANDATORY for them to be at work because national holiday = increased business capacity. Do you think it will increase voters? No, people will just take the holiday and just like all the other "National Holidays" make others work.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: I want to slap about nine out of every ten commenters in this thread. Cynical asses, all of you. Whatever's going on or not, it *must* be due to someone's conniving, right?

Election Day *used* to be a holiday, if you go back far enough. It was part of a larger, multi-day event known as a 'muster'. The muster had to do with the 'militia' referenced in the first clause of the Second Amendment: Before the modern republic took shape, the nation had no standing army ("regulars") and instead relied on volunteer militias.

Or *mostly* volunteer, that is, in the sense that these people were more similar to reservists, if reservists only showed up once a year. Mustering was in some ways similar to the draft, in that it was required by law for 'able' men of appropriate age, though enforcement was mostly in the form of local peer pressure and the social appeal of being one of the manly men who participated.

Mustering was a scheduled annual event, and that was a convenient time also to have elections, since at the time it was mostly the same people (landed gentry) who had the franchise. (The womenfolk and others who stayed home didn't vote anyway, so it didn't matter that they weren't there). This was, in that historical context, a very obvious confluence of priorities. Since the muster meant that most men weren't available for regular work, it was an ideal time to hold elections, and so in that respect Election Day was a kind of holiday.

It was on Tuesday (in most places) on the logic that most people would attend church on Sunday, then leave for the muster, and it might take time time to get there on the roads of 300 years ago, if you lived in the country -- which most people did at the time. In many places, Election Day was the single biggest event of the whole year.

We inherited most of that, but the muster is long gone. If you ever wondered why federal elections are on a Tuesday, though, now you know. It's got nothing to with our parties, which didn't even exist at the time this tradition started. And it started under British rule, not even our own national government, so you can't blame Washington (which also didn't exist at the time). It's just an old habit, one that continues to serve its original purpose well enough that so far, there hasn't seemed much need to change it, or at least no one's come up with a better one and convinced enough others of it.

That's all. It's not conservatives or liberals, Republican or Democratic schemers (or even Whigs and Tories), unions, corporations, or any of that other modern-day cynical bile. It's just an artefact of history, okay, folks? Calm the fuck down. If you want your world to be better, a good start would be to not whip out your dicks and piss on every discussion about how to do it.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Voter suppression is an important tactic for the Republican party.  The Republican base is generally smaller but more dedicated,  making voting as hard as possible means that more democrats stay home rather than take time off work and go down to the polls with 9 forms of photo ID . This allows them to win elections even with a smaller base of support.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Politicians don't want *everyone* to vote. They want only their supporters to vote.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Hi, sorry if this gets buried but I work in politics managing campaigns and here's my 2 cents on why this isnt a big deal.

No dramatic increases in voter participation is tied to ease of voting. Literally most everyone who wants to vote is going to vote anyway. 37 states of no excuse early voting. They do not see an increase in voter turnout. Oregon switched to mail in voting, literally not even having to wait in line, and turnout didn't increase (here's the Sec State report) _URL_1_ 


Now onto the main reasons. Cost Cost Cost Cost Cost Cost Cost. Disregard what I said above, lets approach it not from the reality, but from the possibility:

 I am running a campaign for Sam the Baker against Bob the Builder. We're running for a seat to represent the United Professions, Seat B, which has 50 voters in it. Only 2/3 of those people will likely vote more than once in their lifetime, but lets be generous and say 80% so now I have 40 voters to talk to. My party, Bakers Dozen, has 13 members. Bobs Union has 12 members so I'm already at an advantage. But Sam's wife and adult child will vote for him but Bob has a wife  and adult child too and Sam's ex-wife is voting for Bob because Sam sucks in bed. So now we're both at 15 with only our base voting. Where does this put us, its July, we're now both polling at 30% in the polls and the race is wide open with 40% undecided. Now here is where the cost comes in because Peter the President was a real prick and thought instituting a national holiday and no excuse mail in voting was going to win his party more votes. Guess what I know have to worry about? I have to worry about not only convincing voters and getting them to the polls, but doing that not for 3 weeks but now for 9 months because at ANY time they can choose to vote with mail in voting. /end sidebar 

So now we're tired but since everyone's going to vote so now not only do I have to spend money on educating every voter (not bad) but now I have to worry about more election day costs. How many buses can I rent for driving my voters to the polls, how many cars and gas cards do I need to pay for the same thing. How many volunteers do I need, how much am I paying for a database to track who early voted or not. Everything about that is great, I get paid more too because now I'm not sleeping for 2 months instead of 1 week but don't complain about money in politics if you want that, because Dave the Drunk will never mount a viable third party campaign to unseat the Bakers or Builders.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Probably because then the people coming out would be more likely to be moderates,  and therefore unpredictable.  As it stands, people holding more extreme party views are more likely to come out to vote, as they tend to care more. If incentive to not vote is taken away (such as not having to work) then the moderates have more incentive to vote.  (I'm no expert, just taking a Government and Politics class)
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Why not have it on a Saturday like we do in Australia. 

The tough part is finding the place with the best sausage sizzle.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: A national holiday doesn't mean a whole lot.  Fast food places are still open.  Factories still run.  The grocery store still needs to be stocked.  All it means is a couple select groups like federal workers, teachers, and bank employees don't have to work.  The other 98% of the worker class still have to clock in.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: congress is a body made up of officials elected under the current electoral system so any change to the current electoral system is more likely to benefit challengers almost by definition
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Just do what Australia and Brazil do, and make it mandatory to vote otherwise you get a fine.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: I feel like the main underlying reason is just that the guys who are in office are the ones who know how to win under the current system.  For most of them any change is not in their self interest.  Like even if it would benefit democrats more than republicans it still might not benefit the specific democrats that are currently in office.  They're the ones that have the support of those democrats that have the time to vote.  They wouldn't necessarily have the support of those that don't have the time.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: **Better question:** If my phone can read my finger print, why can't I just vote on my phone? Surely it wouldn't be more open to fraud than the mailed ballots.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Have any studies shown that it would actually help turnout? I suspect it might even hurt as people decide to take a long weekend and go out of town. I guess it depends on your state, but I feel like the ballots open early enough and stay open late enough that it really isn't that hard to get out and vote IF YOU WANT TO. And if you don't want to, I don't think a day off is going to change that. Maybe if it was a day off only if you provided proof you voted, but I'm pretty sure that would violate the constitution in some way.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Nobody's going to agree with me at this point but the problem continues to be that everybody reduces the infinite complexity of life and the universe down to 2 categories.    Every fucking time. 

Everything is DEMOCRAT OR REPUBLICAN.   LIBERAL OR CONSERVATIVE.   US VS. THEM.    ALWAYS ONE OF TWO CATEGORIES 100% OF THE TIME. 

We can't have *any* rational conversations in this world because it's all been reduced to 2 columns and whatever column you assign yourself to, the other column and everything in it is your mortal enemy.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Realistically it doesn't matter and could only hurt people. I work in a plant. A plant that will not shut down for voting. McDonald's is not going to close for voting. Super Markets are not going to close for voting. Etc. The places that do close for voting will be few and there is no guarantee that the employees will be paid for that day. Overall, it is a great idea in principle, it wouldn't really make a difference.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: ITT: People who don't understand how few rights you actually have regarding labor.

1.  If you made voting a national holiday, there would be nobody to manage the polls - state and federal employees are off on national holidays.

2.  It wouldn't help get people to vote because people companies aren't required to pay extra for people to work national holidays.  People would still work the same hours.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: It likely wouldn't change much.  While every job is required to allow people time away from work to vote, only state and federal non-essential personnel would benefit from getting the entire day off as a national holiday.  Private companies are not required to give people off on national holidays.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: PS ALL YOU DUMB FUCKS OUT THERE WHO BITCH AND COMPLAIN ABOUT NOT BEING REPRESENTED....  ALL IT TAKES IS A LITTLE FUCKING EFFORT TO VOTE BY MAIL.  IF YOU CANT DO THAT THEN FUCK YOU DON'T DESERVE TO VOTE YOU LAZY PIECE OF AMERICAN SHIT!

That is all.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Its more trouble than its worth. Think about every holiday, some businesses or government agencies are always open. So are needed. Best to do what we do now, and just mandate ever employer give their employees an excused couple hours to go vote.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: It would turn into a giant sales day.  "Check out the Voting Day sales at your local Dodge dealer".  Not everyone would get the day off.  

If you want change, make voting day April 15th, with your taxes.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: because the only people that would have that day off are government workers.  everyone else would still have to go to work.  it would be pointless.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: TLDR: Republicans wouldn't gain votes, they're either retired, unemployed, or have the freedom to leave work. Democrats are usually too busy hustling away at work.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: The companies that paid to put them in office do not want to pay their workers to have a whole day off to vote.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because why would you need a whole day off to do something which takes most people less than a half hour?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: An election day would simply become another holiday that all poor people must work, so I'm sure democrats wouldn't want it.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because both think it would give the other an advantage. 

This is why all things that should happen don't in government.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Voting day in our country  is always on a weekend...  I'm pretty sure it's always a Saturday -  New Zealand
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Democrats don't need it. There core voting base doesn't work and we have to many national holidays as is.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: It's easier to control the outcome through advertising with a smaller number of voters.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Australian here, we always vote on a Saturday, what's the issue?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: BECAUSE THEY DON'T ACTUALLY WANT YOU TO VOTE, DUH.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: It wouldn't change anything.  There are plenty of "national holidays" that are just completely skipped or looked over by most jobs and most people would *still* be at work on the new national holiday simply because they can't afford to take an unpaid holiday or don't want to use a paid vacation day to vote when they can easily do early voting or just go before or after work (if they even care enough to vote).

Retail stores will not close.  They only close now for Easter, Christmas and half of Thanksgiving (shrinking every year).  All of those workers will still be at work, and they might even have more than the usual number of workers to cover the "holiday" rush caused by everyone else having a day off.  Hourly workers of all types will still be working on voting day even if it's a national holiday.

Policemen, Firemen, Military, Doctors, Nurses, EMTs, Pilots, Airport personnel, Bus drivers and other such essential jobs won't have a day off because they *never* have a day off.  Emergencies don't wait for national holidays to be over, and people still have to travel.

The only people who get national holidays as a true day off are teachers, schoolkids, and people with salaried white collar jobs, and those are the people who don't need any help on voting day anyway because (a) schools are used as polling places so school is often cancelled that day anyway and (b) salaried workers usually don't have any problem taking a long lunch or an extra hour off to go vote in the middle of the day.

Unless you *force* employers to close on voting day and mandate that they pay their workers for the day anyway, it won't change anything.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: I don't know about Democrats, but for Republicans opposing a national holiday is a no-brainer.

"National Election Day" would immediately join the ranks of other "second tier" national holidays : MLK day, President's day, Veteran's day, Columbus Day.  Every government office and school would be closed, but 90% of the rest of us would still be at work, as we are on MLK day, President's day, etc.

Since government employees and teachers vote Democrat, it would amount to a massive turnout operation for Democrats.

Oh, and for an added bonus : the two segments of US government employees that do vote Republican are law enforcement and the military ... which are way more likely to be working on a national holiday.

I don't know why the Democrats don't like it.  Popular yet Quixotic efforts seem to be their wheelhouse lately.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because it doesn't need to be.

1. Voting in person should be easy, if it isn't we should do mail-in vote.

2. National holiday is wasteful drag on productivity for something that should not take more than a hour.

3. How often should we have have this holiday?  
    Once every four year? Well has the House of Representatives has elections every two, how about some love for them.
    OK, Every two years.  Sure, but my town has elections for boards and such
    OK, every year, you satisfied?

No because with federal elections, state elections, local elections, plus primaries(state and local) , special elections, run-offs and over-rides, some years I vote on TEN different days.  
A holiday for each is not practical or worth it. 

Just Vote
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: It would involve taking First Past The Post seriously. No one can take a system as manipulable and undemocratic as First Past The Post seriously. There are so many ways in which it can be manipulated, which makes companies and lobbies very happy, so why even bother? 

Also, if the US didn't have FPTP, they would have ceased having a bipartisan system a long time ago. Perhaps it would also be less sensitive to tricks like gerrymandering and other forms of manipulation, and political discussion might just be a little more sensible than "I'm Republican, so I'm right and you're retarded" and "No, you're a backwards Bible hugger, as a Democrat I'm the one who's right".
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: if voting day was a national holiday, i feel like a lot of people ... wouldn't take that day off to vote. It doesn't make sense...but it makes sense. The excuse to be late because you were at the polls ... works well enough. The fact that you're already out and about for the day, with shit to do so you take some time to go vote. I can't speak for everyone obviously, but, a "holiday" means ... day off. Making plans (or not making plans), that don't involve standing in line to vote. It's like, it would almost become even MORE inconvenient.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Ultimately, it's just not worth it in their eyes.  There are very few people that fail to vote because they had to work.  The polls are open for a long enough time to accommodate all work shifts.  Of course it *does* impact some people, but it's not a large enough percentage for them to care. 

On top of that, there are no laws that say you can't make your employees work on a national holiday.   In fact,  most companies are still open on national holidays.  So it's not like everyone will be off for voting day.  It would have almost no effect.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: ITT: People who think Bankers and government workers need another holiday in the U.S. 




Either that or they don't have real jobs in the real world, because most people work most Government Holidays since businesses aren't forced to give people the day off or even pay time and a half. And as far as I know the only people that get all Federal Holidays off are bank employees and government workers. Most people work without time and a half,  holidays like Presidents Day,  Columbus Day,  Martin Luther King Jr Day.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Here in backwards-ass Pasco County, Florida you can sign up to vote by mail using the county election supervisor's website. And one of the options when you sign up is "do you want to vote by mail in all future elections?" 

The answer should be Yes.

And about a month before election day a ballot shows up in the mail. For any election - county, city, primary, general, all of them. You fill in the bubbles, put a stamp on it, and mail it. It could not be any easier.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Can someone ELI5 when does USA actually have election days? From the comments I undersand that it's only a single Tuesday? That doesn't sound reasonable. What time?

We (Czech Republic) have election days on Fridays, 2 PM - 10 PM + Saturdays 8 AM - 2 PM, so that everyone can go vote and it doesn't need to be a holiday, since people working 9-5 can go vote straight after work (as opposed to if it was a holiday, they might just be lazy and stay at home).
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: In Australia, it's compulsory to vote. 

We vote on weekends which means that the majority of people can vote easily. Polling booths are reasonably efficient and thus usually you can line up and vote in under 1-2 hours at worst. Usually there's a fundraiser BBQ going for the school / volunteer fire brigade etc so your lunch is covered too. We call election day "National Sausage Sizzle Day".

For people that have to work on that day, postal / absentee votes are possible and easy to do.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Paul Weyrich conservative Republican and founder of the far right wing Heritage foundation. 


"So many of our Christians have what I call the goo-goo syndrome: good government. They want everybody to vote. I don't want everybody to vote. Elections are not won by a majority of people, they never have been from the beginning of our country and they are not now. As a matter of fact, our leverage in the elections quite candidly goes up as the voting populace goes down."

Typical Republican prick.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: So, maybe it's just cause I'm young, but why do we need a voting day? Why do people complain about having to stand in line for hours? When I voted, I just dropped off my ballet in a box. No lines. No nothing. Just walked up, dropped it off. Took 2 minutes. Didn't even have to leave my house either if I didn't want to, I could have mailed it in. So what's up with people complaining about the "hassle" of voting?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: A reason I haven't seen on here in a quick skim through the thread is that employers aren't going to shut themselves down for an entire day. That's a large amount of lost profits. If they don't even close for Thanksgiving (or Christmas!!!), are they really going to support a bill? No, they're going to lobby against it as hard as possible...and businesses like that hold a lot of sway over the Congresspeople whose campaigns they finance.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Why would they? 

The cynic in me says that as it's not a public holiday, people are happy to go and vote as it's time out of work. 

If it were a public holiday, people would think "I don't want to waste some of my day off by going to vote!"

ELI5 : adults generally don't enjoy being in work, or voting, so wuldn't waste a day off by going to vote.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Also, if everyone voted 100% every election cycle, conservatives would never win because most people left of middle on the political spectrum. We did a test I my APGOV class and all but one person landed square in the middle or I the liberal left. That one other person scored way more conservative than anybody else. He also had the bright idea of wearing KKK shirts on MLK day as a joke.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: As a Democrat I would love a national holiday for voting. My assumption is that most Democrats would as they tend to benefit from higher turnout, historically speaking. 

Actually, I would even take it a step further and do what Australia does -- make voting mandatory. Cue replies of how this would be tyranny and oppressive and the end of the world. Did I mention Australia already does this?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Really, why would anyone want people voting who are so lazy that they couldn't make it on election day during the week? Yes, I've failed to vote a few times, but solely from lack of energy to get myself to the polls. If so many people died to preserve our free elections, citizens can somehow grind their way to the voting booth once every two years.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because a whole day off to vote would possibly involve some rapscallions getting their voices heard while simultaneously decrease productivity. And with a whole day off, some people might research candidates and position and what have you and not vote straight party. A third or fourth voice might get elected, and one of them might not be a doctor or a lawyer. RON PAUL 2012
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: It's not necessary. State's can, and often do offer early voting.  You have three weeks and even weekends to vote in Georgia leading up to election day.  There is also absentee voting.  Plus...which election day are you talking about?  There are elections every year.  Some are local in nature.  Then there are runnoffs...should they be holidays too?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Making something a holiday doesn't get a lot of people off work. In fact, it would probably cause a lot more people to have to work. "Come on in for Election Day sales! Everything is 20% off!"

Anyway, where I live, the polling station is open for 12 hours and we also have absentee voting.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Seattle does something pretty cool here that I think helps turnout a bit. We actually have our ballots mailed to us, we fill it out and send it off by the cutoff date, a few days later we have results. This is how Washington legalized gay marriage and decriminalized recreational marijuana a couple years back.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Neither party would benefit from such a thing. However if this was combined with serious campaign finance reform, it might have a real impact. Also I think every ballot should contain a vote for "none of the above". Lets all remember that our elected officials are public servants, not American royalty.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Voting on time must be a problem for the rich, because as someone whos never been rich and had bullshit barely over minimum wage jobs  before, Ivs never had a problem going to the polls before or after work. Even took my 3 year old with me last time.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: OMG why doesn't anyone realize that the people who can't vote because of work are largely the group of people who would use a holiday to travel. Holidays are rare, special days and people who get them off use them wisely. NOT for voting.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Is voting so complicated it requires an entire day off?  Im Canadian so our elections have at most 2-3 decisions. Ive never been at my polling place longer than 10 minutes, including lineups. Arent advanced polls enough rather than an entire day off.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: I'm unable to answer your question, but I completely agree with your sentiment. I'm tired of being unable to vote because of an unwillingness to set aside the time to do so after an 8-10 hour work day.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: In my state it would be pointless.  Starting a couple years ago WA state decided to close all polling places and mail out everybody ballot.  Voting by mail anywhere in WA state is your only option.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: UK guy here. Why would this be needed? In the UK polling stations are open from early morning until well into the evening. Do US polling stations only open during office hours or something?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Does it matter?  Who is working on voting day for a 16 hour shift and can't do absentee ballot?

That has to be like 0.001% of people with a problem, here.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: You can vote by mail in pretty much every state. No need for a holiday -- especially when it won't help low-income workers who would likely have to work that day.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: The long and short of it is that Democrats don't want people who work voting and the Republicans want to make sure that those who are going to vote will.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: If that was the case everyone would be at a park having a picnic in election day.

Being able to legally skip work or be late on election day? Priceless.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because the window to vote is more than enough. if you can't find an hour to vote during those WEEKS or mail it in... you don't get a vote.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: We have compulsory voting and it would be nice to have a public holiday but they usually just put it on a Saturday. Still doesn't suit everyone
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Holiday means "holy day", and I don't think God wants us to vote.

Also: don't we have enough holidays already?  Get back to work, slacker.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: why would it need to be made a holiday when employers are already required by law to allow someone paid time to go and vote?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: We have early voting. The poles are open at least a week. I'm always really confused when this comes up.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: If you had an holiday what would you normally do? Go out, get a short vacation. Would you go vote?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: heres an idea. Move President's day to be on the same day as Election Day. It only makes sense.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: I'm soooooo glad this isn't.  When voting isn't important to someone I don't want their opinion in government.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because Wed just use it as a day to get drunk and have barbecues in parks
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Why not just put voting day on Veteran's Day or some other nationally recognized holiday?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: I believe this is one reason why write in ballots are raising in popularity.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: People would turn it into a four day weekend and still wouldn't vote.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Just replace Columbus Day with Election Day and be done with it.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: According to reddit the dinosaurs going extinct is because the republicans.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: also oh my god, why did I even open this thread
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: National Voter Registration Day is gaining some momentum.  Check it out.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Does the US not have pre voting or postal voting?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Republicans actively want less people to Vite and suppress voters.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because the super bowl should probably be a holiday first.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Lol also....electoral college system....why does that shit still exist
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Cause they know that the voting secretly doesn't matter.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Swede here. Why would it be a holiday?
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Voting and superbowl Monday should both be holidays.
question: Why isn't there any passion from both Democrats and Republicans about making voting day a national holiday? answer: Because voting takes 20 minutes, not all day.
question: Gay Marriage answer: ELI5:  Congresspeople are fuckwads who need to mind their own business, and concentrate on fleecing the poor and fucking the weak, like they've always done, but religion == free votes so they can continue the fuckage.


ELI15:  Technically, a pastor/priest/shaman/whatever is an offiiating witness, allowed by the state to witness marriages (but where I'm from and in many places you don't even need that...just the intent to be married.)  Marriage as a religious ceremony is defined by the religion, and the government is constitutionally obligated to stay the hell out.  This isn't saying they do...child marriage, polygamy, bigamy, and other religious things are restricted all the time.  Some religions resent that the government "tells" them who to marry, since religion is so good at doing the right thing, you understand.

The problem is that lawmakers pick the religions to "enforce," so while many churches don't give a single shit if you are gay, the big "Christian" ones do.

Of course, Jesus pal'ed around with 12 dudes and only one chick.  There was some bromance, at least.

I personally think if they are mentally sound, and you are able to get their consent, fuck it.  It's not like they can't move in and sleep in your bed without a government certified piece of paper.  I doubt a gay guy is gonna sneak up and marry me without my consent (and since marriage is a contract that wouldn't hold up anyway).

But that is why religions should be able to refuse you the right to belong to their religion and get married, and why other religions should be able to give them the finger and do it anyway.
question: Gay Marriage answer: That's basically the reason why any time the issue of Gay marriage bans gets appealed to higher level federal courts, the courts almost always strike down the ban because of its discriminatory nature.

That doesn't stop the fact that many states have still laws that ban Gay marriages or specifically define marriage as a union between a man and a woman though.
question: Gay Marriage answer: ELI5 is for requests for easy-to-follow, objective explanations of complex concepts and subjects. Unfortunately, people have emotions and will often give non-objective, biased explanations when confronted with a question that either tries to argue a point or otherwise has some sort of bias in it. As it stands, your question would be better suited elsewhere, such as /r/changemyview. Good luck!
question: Does passing out have any advantages?Passing out from an uncomfortable experience, heat exhaustion or pain seems to have no advantage. Is there any benefit? answer: Passing out basically means that your brain isn't functioning and your body shuts down. This can happen for a variety of reasons. A blow to the head, constriction of blood to the head, drop in blood pressure due to injury, drugs, or just standing up too quickly, body temperature that is too high (dilating blood vessels which can allow gravity to keep blood from the brain), or low body temperature (constricting blood vessels which could impede the flow of blood to the brain.) Passing out isn't your body trying to do something useful, it is the result of something traumatic happening to your brain.
question: Does passing out have any advantages?Passing out from an uncomfortable experience, heat exhaustion or pain seems to have no advantage. Is there any benefit? answer: Passing out protects your body from excessive stress or injury. If you are forced to continue (in action movies or sci fi they sometimes have people who allegedly can't feel pain or can run at top speed forever) cells would run out of energy and joints can get injured.

Sometimes it's a system shut down. A punch or blow that causes your brain to hit the side of the skull (usually your brain is floating in a liquid which protects it from concussions) which can overwhelm it and cause it to shut down (like rebooting your PC but not exactly)

Another could be an interruption of how your biology needs to function. Think about a sleeper hold. Your brain needs a constant supply of blood to stay functional. Squeezing the carotid arteries cuts blood from the brain and it shuts down. But this example has less to do with protecting your body than a system shutdown, like pulling the power cord to your computer.
question: Does passing out have any advantages?Passing out from an uncomfortable experience, heat exhaustion or pain seems to have no advantage. Is there any benefit? answer: pain and the like can result in vasoconstriction - blood vessels squeezing tighter. This can reduce the flow of blood to your brain. When this happens, you pass out. Once laying down the bloodflow normalizes and you immediately wake back up.

Strong emotional reactions can trigger these events as well, but its not entirely clear why. But the underlying physical mechanism is the same.
question: Does passing out have any advantages?Passing out from an uncomfortable experience, heat exhaustion or pain seems to have no advantage. Is there any benefit? answer: I'm not a doctor so feel free to correct me if i'm wrong but i think the answer to your question depends on why you passed out for before example let's say you are killing yourself doing squats and you end up feeling dizzy and passing out for a few seconds.

In this situation your brain is probably not receiving enough blood because your body is focusing on pumping blood to your legs, passing out forces you to lay down for a bit and normalizing the blood flow so your brain gets the oxygen it needs. That's why people tell you to lay down with your legs up when you start feeling dizzy after a leg workout for instance. To clarifiy it's not that your body intentionally makes you pass out as far as i'm aware, it's just a result of your brain not getting the resources it needs
question: Why doesn't everyone pay a flat tax rate regardless of what they earn?[removed] answer: It is one approach that has been suggested. There are a few reasons that a "progressive tax" where the rich pay more is fairly common:

Savings. Rich people tend to save more of their money and spend less of it (since the poor need to spend all of it to survive today). With a tax just on consumption (like a sales tax) this actually means that the rich pay less tax than the poor.

Sheltering. Rich people have more flexibility about how they earn money. They can get shares in a company in another country rather than a salary, so they can avoid paying tax on some of their income. Again this means the poor end up paying more tax. If all of the loopholes were closed this wouldn't be as much of a problem, but that's difficult to do when someone is willing to spend $1M to find ways around the tax laws.

Efficiency. Why a percentage of income. If taxes are to provide services, why shouldn't everyone just pay an equal share (e.g. $10,000/yr)? If we do that, then taxes are limited to what lowest earning workers can afford to pay, which is pretty close to nothing. If I earn 10x what my husband does, and we insist we always split the costs, then I end up living and eating very cheaply, but if I contribute more then we both end up with a better house, car, and food.

Happiness. $1,000 means more to someone making $10,000/yr than it does to someone making $100,000/yr. It's one thing to not be able to buy a new iPhone, but it's another to not be able to buy food. Starving leads to desperate acts like crime, or armed revolution, which ultimately make the rich unhappy also. Having the rich contribute more leads to an overall happier society.

Fairness. There is an idea, particularly in the US, but also in the UK, that people are morally entitled to their income, because being rich is a reflection of pure skill. However, in reality almost everyones income results largely from factors beyond their control -- what country you're born in, the quality of schools, the road, water, sewer, and healthcare infrastructure, the legal and regulatory enforcement system, and their parent's income. Imagine being born in Tasmania 1,000 years ago, vs Rome 2,000 years ago, vs India today. Some of being rich is about hard work, but most of it is about luck.

From a moral point of view, the rich aren't really entitled to all of that money, so society can fairly ask the wealthy to pay more. By having the rich pay more the society can improve and be happier. However, the society also wants to encourage hard work, so there needs to be some incentive to work hard and be productive so we can't make the tax rate so progressive that the rich lose all of their money. 

Ultimately even with the progressive taxes, there are enough advantages to already being rich that the rich are making more money much faster than the poor (or even the average), so the existing tax rates probably aren't progressive enough.
question: Why doesn't everyone pay a flat tax rate regardless of what they earn?[removed] answer: A flat tax does more harm to people who earn less.

Housing, food, clothing, transportation; you have to pay these, whether you make a huge amount of money or very little. However, people who make very little are spending almost all of it just covering these bare necessities, while someone who makes millions a year can comfortably provide for these needs with a fraction of a fraction of their income.

If you take 20% of the income of the poor person and 20% of the income of the rich person, the rich person barely feels it in comparison to the hardship it will cause the poor person. If you take 10% from the poor person and 40% from the rich person, you're still causing more hardship to the poor person, but much less than you were before.
question: Why doesn't everyone pay a flat tax rate regardless of what they earn?[removed] answer: Flat taxes are unfair to the poor, because the poor need to spend a greater percentage of their income on the basics of survival (i.e, food and shelter).

That's why the poor pay a lower marginal tax rate than the wealthy.
question: Why doesn't everyone pay a flat tax rate regardless of what they earn?[removed] answer: The relative effects on those who make less money are more severe.

If you make $12,000/year, you are officially just above the poverty line and might be able to just scrape by. You don't have money for luxuries, but you can probably keep yourself sheltered in some capacity (even if it's just a rented room). You probably can't save much. A tax burden of 10% would have a *huge* impact on your quality of life. Now, you're effectively making $10,800, which is below the poverty line. You went from just scraping by to maybe getting evicted. 

If you're making 50,000/year, that same tax takes you down to 45,000. It might affect the car you buy or how many rooms your house/apartment has, but it's not affecting your ability to keep sheltered, clothed, and fed. 

If you're making 100,000/year, that tax takes you down to 90,000. There is little impact on your lifestyle at this point. Maybe you can only buy a new car every three or four years, or you vacation in Hawaii instead of Europe. 

If you're making 1,000,000/year, you pay 100,000 and take home 900,000. Maybe your yacht is slightly shorter? There's not much functional impact on you at all.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Child care provider/hopeful future postpartum doula here. When babies/toddlers are overtired, their bodies produce cortisol to help them stay awake. This stress inhibits sleep and results in the hormonal/emotional mess you speak of. 

Edit: I've learned that what I thought was right is not accurate. My information comes from baby sleep specialist sites like _URL_0_ and I haven't found backing from sources with more authority. I never bothered to check for myself because the explanation made sense to me and aligned with my experiences. Sorry, guys!
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: There are two issues here.  First, they need certain triggers to fall asleep - whatever they usually have, such as a rocking motion, you singing a lullaby, drinking a bottle, etc.  They ideally want the same smelling sheets as last night and the same amount of light in their room. If the trigger is missing, they have a lot of difficulty falling asleep.  This is why I always warn moms to be aware of this if they nurse the baby to sleep.  That baby most likely is not going to quietly drift off at 3 am in Dad's arms.  If you think about it, you probably face the same issue when travelling.
   Another issue that comes up is their instinctual need to be close to you.  Babies can sometimes get distressed if their primary caretaker isn't there.  Newborns don't seem to notice as long as they are full, dry, and cozy.  However, a few months later they seem to realize that mom and dad can leave.  That combined with missing their sleep cues, and it's scream city, even if they slept well in earlier weeks.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Babies don't understand that sleep fixes lack of sleep.

They cry because of the discomfort.

The dumb shits.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: There is a process called myelination that happens in your brain as you grow. This process puts a sheath on the nerves in the brain to improve conductivity. Children have a frontal lobe that isnt fully myelinated thus their regulation of emotion is poor. This also explains risky behavior as a teen as the risk judgement part of your brain isnt myelinated fully. Your brain doesnt fully myelinate until you are about 25 and through the myelination process executive functions mature.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Not sure if this has been mentioned yet but another reason babies and young children cry before going to sleep is because that is how they decompress. They dont have solid language skills and arent emotionally developed enough to sit there and tell you So I was really over stimulated today by all the fun things we did. I think Ill take a nice long walk and listen to some music or a nice warm shower to just chill out.  So they scream to release stress. Also when theyre over tired forget about it- something happens and they get delirious and turn into banshees. Many havent learned coping skills or the ability to self soothe which is a very important skill for them to obtain. Thus screaming commences. Parents often refer to the witching hour which is often about dinner time for adults. Its a very real thing. Kids are exhausted and have pent up stress, parents are hungry and tired themselves so they arent full of patience and its a perfect storm.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Children are, by definition, immature. They have yet to mature. Babies and toddlers are also irrational. They don't have the brain development to behave in a logical fashion.

So in a sense, your question is:
"Why do these tiny immature and irrational people do things that aren't *reasonable*?

They don't have the experience and maturity to recognize their internal and external state (being tired or sleepy). They also don't have the brain development to formulate or recognize a rational solution to the problem.

What the DO have is an instinctive need to cry and scream for their caretakers when they are uncomfortable. So since that is the only tool they reliably have, they use it.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Babies cant filter out what feeling means what, they only understand good feelings and bad feelings. Mom holding me, good: laugh! Fatigue, bad: cry!
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Beyond the fact that babies lack an understanding of their surroundings at a young age (as many others have pointed out), the main problem is that they do not understand how to put themselves to sleep.  

In the womb, and most of the time during early life, they fall asleep with the comfort of the mother.  In the womb, they hear her heartbeat and blood flow and have the constant warmth of her body heat.  Once born, young babies most often fall asleep during or shortly after feedings, while being held.  When they're placed in cribs or bassinets awake or when they wake up alone inside a crib or bassinet, they don't have the capacity to self-soothe and return to a calm enough state to fall asleep.  

This is why the Ferber method of sleep training is popular and effective.  You let your child cry for a pre-determined time (which increases as the training progresses) and eventually they learn to put themselves to sleep without parental comfort.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Because being tired is uncomfortable. It sucks. Babies don't understand that the discomfort associated with being tired is temporary. They just know that they are uncomfortable, and they cry for attention and care when they experience discomfort.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Healthy babies have basically three reasons for crying: 1) They are hungry. 2) They are lonely. 3) They want to sleep. Edit: 4) Dirty diaper. Crying drives a parental response that addresses all those concerns. They cry because it gets them what they want.  
I've wondered about that myself. I mean, how the fuck did my cave man ancestors keep their kids quiet when they were hunted by a saber tooth tiger or some shit? My kids get anxiety if their Kindle battery gets below 40%.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Its the only way they know how to express their frustration. They cant articulate in words how crappy they feel plus crying hard also serves to tire them out more. Ever have a good cry and just feel exhausted after? Yeah that. Be patient, theyre little.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: The behavior you describe indicates that the child is overly tired or had little warning that it was time to rest. Children who are up past the time that their body needs sleep become fussy due to stress hormones building up. Their level of frustration increases, while they also begin experiencing rushes of adrenaline as their body attempts to cope with the stress. Hence why these children can be silly one second and weeping the next. Their ability to cope with minor set backs decreases to a critical point at which most caregivers will go "Ohhhh, you're tired" and immediately attempt to put the child down for nap. But interrupting whatever they were doing and going straight into nap is also a potential conflict, as they don't perceive themselves as ready for nap. They're busy trying to rip the wall paper down (or something similar).

So now, you've got a baby who is stressed (due to exhaustion) and frustrated (due to having to stop what they were doing for this 'nap' thing you're raving about) and over stimulated (due to adrenaline). And we're expecting them to lie still and go to sleep.... all three of the above things are reasons children cry. It defuses  energy and expels stress hormones, and it communicates to you "I need help, something is wrong with me".

So, how to prevent this. Have a routine... it doesn't have to be extensive. Even just 1)diaper change 2) a lullaby and 3) I put you in your crib can be enough for some children. And in addition to their routine, you have to notice their first tired cue and begin the routine. Rubbing eyes, bags forming, yawning, slowing down, becoming clumsy... these are all cues and each child is a little different. Once you know a child's cue, begin the routine as soon as they have one or two and BEFORE their tiredness upsets them.

Other helpful nap time tips -

- limit screen time. Children under 3 especially are highly influenced by tv and other video devices. Not only do programs and games make them sedentary so they are not burning energy through physical or mental play, but the blue light messes with their circadian rhythm and sleep hormones.

-get outside. Sunlight is best for helping children's sleep hormones regulate appropriately.

-avoid relying on tricks or devices to put children to sleep if possible (swings, cars, on top of the washer etc.) These limit a child's ability to learn what it feels like to fall asleep and build this skill. Some families desperately need them to survive the first few years, and if it's what they have to do, that's fine. But a young child will eventually have to unlearn those habits... many healthy infants and toddlers can learn to fall asleep with minimal support. But it does take a lot of trust and patience from caregivers.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Because they have zero emotional intelligence and do not yet have any insight into their own feelings or what causes them. We know what tired feels like because weve felt it thousands of times.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Most people put children down to sleep amd leave them which is a deeply terrfying thing for a baby. Babies are little flesh bags and literally the only thing they know is that mommy and daddy are keeping them alive. Then they leave?? Oh god, what if they don't come back??
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: They have zero control over their emotions, their brain are still suffering changes that's why adults tease other adult about crying like babies (for no reason apparently) .  We all being there but it is easier to understand when you have a toddler.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Without using any fancy words, here's a simple explanation...

Remember how young they are. They have close to zero experience in life. **Babies and toddlers don't actually know they are tired**. They feel uncomfortable, irritated, some unpleasant sensation... but they don't know what it means. All they know, at this point in life, is that it feels bad and they wish for that bad sensation to go away. They haven't had enough life experience to realize that all you have to do is lay down, stop moving, and get some rest. They do what babies do when faced with something they don't like. They lash out, crying for help without realizing it will just make them even more tired.

Initially, we fight this bad feeling until we pass out. Eventually, we all learn and stop fighting when we realize the meaning of feeling tired.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Sorry, but you are WAY over thinking this.  Babies are uncomplicated,  and there are a very limited set of reasons for their crying.  

1.  Hungry
2.  Scared
3.  Uncomfortable (too hot, cold, stomach pains, filled diaper, diaper rash,  etc., and the like).
4.  Over tired

It really actually is that simple.

Then, later on (after you finally figure them out) they will change the rules on you and start teething.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: ...and how is this a good evolutionary tactic? You would think that the loud babies would self select for elimination by wild animals and remove their noise-some gene from the gene pool.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Over many, many years - millions of years - human babies have learned that if they are left alone a wolf might eat them.  So when a baby is put down and feels alone, they will cry as a warning to their parents: pick me up!  
_URL_1_

Often when you pick up a crying baby it will stop crying immediately.  This is why.

If the baby doesn't stop crying that means something else is wrong, maybe diaper rash, or hunger.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Because they're hungry *now* and can sleep later. Nor do they care that it's 3 am and you have to go to work in a few hours.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Even adults have trouble processing their emotions. Ever got in an argument and later realised you were only angry because you were hungry, horny, or tired?
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Very young babies literally don't understand what's happening to them when they're falling asleep. (Think about what's involved- if you didn't know all those things = falling asleep, it'd be terrifying.) 

And screaming (usually) brings people who tend to them (basically what baby-cries are designed to do).
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: The short answer is that babies and toddlers require a lot more time to transition from one activity to another. 

They find comfort in routine and they hate deviation from what they know. There is a reason why many pediatricians colloquially refer to the first three months of life as the fourth trimester.

Most babies and young children have cues long before they get to screaming/crying but it takes knowing what they are to respond to them appropriately and within time. 

Many children and babies are soothed by being swaddled and walked or worn in a carrier because it simulates the familiar and safe feeling of the womb. 

When a baby or young child gets so overwhelmed and their needs are not met, they basically get to the point of meltdown because to them, the need is extreme and there is no way to communicate it with more nuance. 

Hunger and tiredness are the most common because they affect the entire brain and body. Plenty of adults grow irritable when they lose lots of sleep but newborns and children not only require a lot of sleep, theyre growing and developing by leaps and bounds, which requires immense amounts of energy. 

The problem is that very little babies and many children cannot self soothe because they literally do not have the skills to do so. Their brains and bodies are not developed enough, either.  Children and babies are terrible at planning or keeping to schedules despite having needs. 

So it is up to caregivers to slowly help teach their kids that not only can they rely on them when they need help, but that their parents will give them the comfort and environment they need to calm down.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Babies crying usually boils down to

Tired
Hungry
Gassy
Constipated
Lonely 
Wet
Scared

Babies need to be soothed to sleep, whether it's by rocking, or rubbing their backs, or nursing to sleep like my babe does. Adults have rituals to help them settle down, too, but their brains are far more developed and they can dp those things on their own. Eventually babies get used to a routine that is just am elongated version of this to gradually get them settled enough to sleep. It may be

Dinner
Diaper
Bath 
Pajamas
Story/Song
Sound machine 
Nightlight 
Sleep

Or some variation of that. If the routine gets screwed up because you're out somewhere and they've been sleepy for an hour but it's too loud or bright for sleep to happen, their bodies will literally fight to keep them awake. This will continue even after you've finally gone home and done the whole bedtime shebang. Baby gets frustrated because they're sooo tired and JUST. WANNA. SLEEP! But it's that much harder because they've basically missed their window and have to wait for the next one. This will continue into toddlerhood, and then sometime after they're in grade school they'll start to sleep like normal people, and you won't have to plan everything to end before 8 PM to keep your child from going absolutely batshit.

There is a logic to it, but it's baby logic. TL;DR: it takes time for small humans to learn to just fall asleep, routine is important and fucking up bedtime routine leads to these crazy sleepless crying things.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Exhaustion heightens emotions and kids can get "overtired" to the point where they're so tired they get upset. When they're upset, they're not going to sleep until calm again.

If you miss your window, you get stressed. Stress causes cortisol (a hormone, or signaling molecule to tell your body how to react. It lasts up to 24 hours or so after being turned "off" even) to be released, which prepares your body for the "flight or fight" response by increasing heart rate (to transport oxygen to muscles), blood glucose (to fuel muscles), and blood pressure. To sleep, you want a stable blood glucose, a resting heart rate, and regular or slower breathing. Those are all pretty opposite to the stress response.

And fuck, I get overtired at night and can't sleep too. Haven't you ever gone into that "I'm so tired but I keep looking at the clock and checking how much sleep I'll get but it's only making me more stressed out about not sleeping that I can't sleep even though I'm tired" phase at like 2 am? 

Sources: 

Daycare teacher for 3 years

Just got an A- in physiology

Some googled stuff to make sure I was explaining properly.

[cortisol info](_URL_2_)
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Babies can't regulate themselves. Which means manage the stimuli internal or external. If a baby is cold, hungry or tired they cry. Scared, tired or sick..they cry. It communicates to the caregiver that something is amiss. They are completely reliant on adults to survive. So crying communicates not just a need but that something for the baby is unmanagable. Sucking on pacifiers for example helps them calm and regulate. This is because sucking is something they are familiar with and can do. Swaddling helps them regulate as does skin to skin contact. Colic is something not completely understood but it may be a digestion issue or the baby has difficulty in calming. They do outgrow it but it is beyond typical crying for day to day needs. As we get older we self regulate and have better ways to communicate.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Oh finally something I can explain! 
Babies are pretty crazy little machines, and they work totally different from adults due to lack of experience!
When a baby cries it's because it's experiencing some sort of discomfort. Newborns are crazy and have no concept of how the world works, not even their own bodies and their feelings like tired or hungry. So, when they experience discomfort they cry, including when they are tired. They haven't quite grasped the concept that sleep=not tired yet, so they cry because they feel uncomfortable. Babies naturally want to become more self sufficient, and learn how to fix minor discomfort on their own over time. This is why as they get older they stop crying when they get tired, because they know that they can fix their own discomfort by sleeping.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: They dont understand like you or I do after years of experience that to get rid of that tired feeling you need to sleep. They have no context or experience with it. Same reason you see those puppy or kitten videos of an animal that is clearly falling asleep standing up tired but instead of just chilling out and not fighting it they keep standing up and running around for 2 seconds before nodding off again. They are freaking out and scared and they dont know what exactly is going on. They havent figured out how to even fall asleep yet let alone connected the dots that sleep is what they need to get rid of this feeling that they dont understand.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: As the parent of a one-year-old, and somebody who has never asked why, I have a theory that just popped into my head.   When babies cry, our usual reaction is to comfort them.   When theyre overtired, theyre also uncomfortable, so maybe its a way for them to ask to be comforted to sleep, in the only language they know how to speak.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: They haven't learned how to self soothe. You have to be extremely exhausted to fall asleep with no soothing technique. Every does something. I rub my feet together. My SO rolls onto his stomach.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: They havent yet learned to regulate negative feelings by self-soothing.  Adults and older children, like babies, feel tired, which is unpleasant, but know from experience that this feeling is temporary and that lying down and resting will help.  They are able to comfort themselves with their thought processes.  Babies actually learn to regulate their own negative emotions through the experience of being comforted by familiar adults, over and over again, but it takes to time to learn the process of emotion regulation to the extent they can successfully do it on their own.

This is why older children/teens who were neglected as infants/toddlers often struggle with regulation of their emotions, even though they cannot remember the neglect they experienced at such a young age.  They missed the development of the skill of self-soothing as infants.  This skill can still be developed later in life with the proper support, but its much harder to do at that point and the child may never get to the skill level of a non-neglected child.

Source:  Am a high school teacher who works with many students whove been affected by trauma and neglect, and have read a lot on the subject, one source in particular being the book The Body Keeps the Score by Bessel Van der Kolk.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: So I guess, think of a baby as a blob. A primitive, instinctual blob. Without having learned anything about the world yet. Now imagine you're a blob. Your just starting to experience everything, without language or understanding. Without context clues or nuances, or appropriate social behaviors. Then imagine this; you only understand binary feelings of good and bad.

Good: Mommy or Daddy feeding you. Changing your diaper so you're clean. Playing/interacting with you. 

Bad: pooped yourself, you're hungry, you're tired. 

But babies/toddlers don't understand concepts like "tired" or "hungry",  just feelings. They don't have social context yet to understand what tired means and therefore how to solve it on their own. They only understand bad and good. And how have they solved all their bad problems so far in life? Crying! It's a developmental thing. Unfortunately, it just takes time until they get old enough to understand.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Babies and toddlers have a different approach to stress as you or I, they simply aren't able to manage their own emotions - in medicine we call this self regulation and children develop it later into childhood.

Basically babies are trained to feel bad, scream, and have you solve the problem all the time every time. They simply cannot plan an action to fix their own feelings of anxiety even if it seems obvious. This is called "attatchement" when you form this sort of feedback loop of screaming and fixing. There isn't a natural instinct for babies to associate any behaviour other than crying with their own comfort until they hit a concrete operational stage where they can understand simple cause and effect - this is the 2nd stage of stress management where they can plan a solution to a problem and see it through.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: As a parent, I feel as though experience speaks to this effect - children are not reasonable beings. You can share the most eloquent of arguments but kids will never hear you. As humans, they know when you're full of shit but will still dog you on an issue.just to be obstinant. It's not because they want to, mostly because they can.  
  
Look at it this way - if you can get the desired results by yelling about it and you see progress, why wouldn't you keep it up?

They see it the same way. Kids arent dumb, they see real-world results and tune into it.  
So, if you want to out-smart kids then all you need to do is be ready for ALL of their questions, no matter the cost...
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Babies start out in the womb, literally being part of their mother. Everything is regulated for them- they are constantly held snugly, are warm, are few, and have their mamas voice and heartbeat with them always. Once born into the big bad world, they are suddenly separate beings and do not know how to do things like this for themselves, including how to soothe themselves to sleep. Its literally called self-soothing and is something we have to teach babies to do so they can allow themselves to relax and drift off. Theres more to it than this, but the concept of self-soothing as a skill we learn is the gist of the answer you seek.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Babies are complex in terms of brain development but luckily this is easy to explain. Human babies have only one defense strategy which comes first in all situation and it goes like this: when in discomfort of any kind: scream.  Fun fact: this egocentrism makes babies very much like psychopaths - putting themselves and disregarding others' emotions.

This instinct of screaming is like many instincts not always used in an optimal setting, just like stress doesn't help us much before tests or like how sexual drive doesn't do much for our species when we masturbate and so on...
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: They don't know they want to sleep. They are brand new to this world so they don't know the relation between tired and sleep. Then when they get to be a year or more and they'll start comprehending, exploring, and understanding their daily lives. Literally everything they encounter is amazing. A potato chip bag, a sneaker, cell phone... They are impressed with everything so even though they are starting to realize tired means sleep, they are afraid they'll miss the next big thing.. Like a cardboard box or something.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Their minds become over stimulated. They dont have the critical thinking skills to wind down crying can sometimes help. Usually talking to them in a soft calm voice, a car ride, or something that forces them to focus and relax will help them fall asleep. It would be like going to an all night concert and within 2 seconds of the music stopping being expected to fall asleep. Yes. Youre tired. But your brain needs to come down from the noise, the chaos, the stimulus.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Little babies are not born fully developed. That includes their brains and nervous systems. Just as they progress through physical developmental milestones by learning to eat, walk, etc, they also have milestones of their nervous system. One of these is the ability to regulate their nervous system to calm and sooth agitated states. Until then they rely on assistance to transition between these states.

The result is that an infant easily transitions to agitated emotional states, and with difficulty transitions away for them without help.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: because that's the only way they have to vent frustration.  Ever been upset, and exhaustion/tired been a part of it?  you can vocalize that reason as your brain has developed enough as adult.  Babies haven't, and so as they are tired, they get frustrated, and they cry.    


It happens ALL. THE. TIME.  all you can do is just wait for it.  and Purple Crying is also a thing, where babies cry and scream for periods.  it'll pass.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Imagine if you will, feeling a feeling for the first time, all you know is it feels bad.  How do you fix it? Now take away your ability to walk, talk, comprehend anything, read, write, critical thinking, etc to the point where you are basically a ball of jello with a bad feeling.  How do you fix it? How can you even begin to comprehend fixing it?
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Even after toddlers start talking, they still dont understand do x and y will feel better. That thought process wont solidify sometimes until theyre like 10. So when children feel ill or are tired, they tend to act out. Ever have a terrible nights sleep and have your morning routine go to shit only to get nailed in rush hour traffic? How crabby do you get?
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Little ones have a difficult time figuring out their bodies signals. They just know that something's wrong. Crying is their instinctive way of telling mom and dad that there's something wrong. 

It really is that simple. That's why rocking usually works. They get comforted and can calm down enough to relax and let it happen.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Maybe they do that to raise awareness around them and call parents to take care of them even if they are already in their crib because they have some kind of behavioral memory attached to that as well.

And, well, the basic action babies perform is screaming/crying to get the things they want.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: For newborns, while in utero, they were being held 24/7/10(months) in a perfect temperature, warm, water environment floating arround and listening to the soothing sound of their mother's heartbeat. The moment born, they are being held less. It is getting used to being held for less time and acclimating to a new environment.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Everything is new to a baby. Every good thing is the best thing ever. Every bad thing is the worst thing ever. But babies cannot articulate what they want or need. They cry because that's the only thing that will get their needs met. Hungry? Cry. Soiled diaper? Cry. Being tired? Cry.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Sleeping babies is not as simple as adults. They often need to be quiet. They need to find the feeling they are most familiar with before they can fall asleep. Otherwise, if they are uncomfortable, they will only express it through crying because he will not be in other ways.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: When theyre so young that theyre still doing that they crying out of reflex opposed to being emotionally upset like older kids. Its pretty much like their body is telling them they need something and their response to that if they dont get it quick enough is to cry.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: It is called being overtired. They get so tired and frustrated that they cant get calm and take even longer to get to sleep. There is a magic window of tiredness when you have to put them down, at least for the first couple years. Good luck!
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Its because they cant process it the same way adults do so they cry for comfort from a loved one they trust (aka parent) to hold them and make them feel better. In the process, they let go and allow themselves to fall asleep
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Maybe because they have no sense of sleep or even self. So imagine you suddenly feel like you're drifting away into nothingness and only darkness is approaching. 
If you don't know what sleep is, that could be scary...
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: The real answer is the same reason that non-babies get cranky when over tired -- but non-babies can say that they are tired, whereas babies cannot.

Being over tired = cranky, at any age.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Child care provider/hopeful future postpartum doula here. When babies/toddlers are overtired, their bodies produce cortisol to help them stay awake. This stress inhibits sleep and results in the hormonal/emotional mess you speak of.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: What's the evolutionary justification?  Why do babies survive better if they scream to tell predators where they are?  Or, are babies whose mothers can't hold them less 'fit' to survive?
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Yerp they cant talk, also its instinctual for a baby to cry so they get social practice. A baby who doesnt cry is a cause for concern.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Even adults have trouble processing their emotions. Ever got in an argument and later realised you were only angry because you were hungry, horny, or tired?
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: I love how you can see what was previously posted in the deleted text, within the subject line for 3 seconds before it disappears.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: They just dont have to ability to communicate and they rely on you alot so i guess they just want to let you know
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Every bit of slight discomfort for a baby is a brand new phenominon, and literally the worst thing they've experienced in their lives.
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: For babies their only method of communication is crying, sometimes they aren't crying to necessarily express their upset
question: Why do babies/toddlers scream and cry for a long time when they are tired instead of just going the eff to sleep?[removed] answer: Even adults get moody. They handle it better (usually) than babies but it is still a similar phenomenon.
question: Why is cancer so prevalent nowadays?Pretty much everyone will have a close family member who suffers from cancer these days. I'm a little younger, so I'm not sure what people usually thought of cancer back before it was really understood. Is there a reason why it is so common now in contrast to decades ago? answer: People are dying less of infectious diseases in the developed world today. Causes of death here in North American tend to be heart disease and cancer.

You can think of it as more people dying of cancer because everything else didn't have the chance to kill them first.

Getting cancer is pretty much inevitable because it's not so much something that directly gave you cancer so much as your body failing to correct some damage caused (and it can be caused by almost anything including sunlight, contact with other humans, being near concrete, eating food, breathing oxygen, etc.) and that damage coincidentally leading to cells that keep dividing and refuse to die. You are actually getting things like cancer all the time, but your body is good at error detection and destroying compromised cells.

This is also why a singular "cure for cancer" is sort of a silly concept right now. Cancer is an entire categorization of things, and it's completely possible to have a completely unique cancer. What can be worked on are treatments for cancer and cures for very specific cancers. Childhood leukemia, for example, has a cure rate of 90%, and we are approaching the point where we can sort of call it cured.

We are also a lot better at diagnosing cancer now. Death records in the past included causes like "heartbreak", "suddenness", "found dead in street", "stomach pains", and etc.
question: Why is cancer so prevalent nowadays?Pretty much everyone will have a close family member who suffers from cancer these days. I'm a little younger, so I'm not sure what people usually thought of cancer back before it was really understood. Is there a reason why it is so common now in contrast to decades ago? answer: Well, Cancer is what gets you when nothing else gets you. To quote another redditor.

Before it really was understood, people assumed the issues were caused by another disease. Only 'recently' we have learned to rule other diseases out better.
question: Why is cancer so prevalent nowadays?Pretty much everyone will have a close family member who suffers from cancer these days. I'm a little younger, so I'm not sure what people usually thought of cancer back before it was really understood. Is there a reason why it is so common now in contrast to decades ago? answer: So, basically everyone needs to die from something. In a Health Services Research course that I took last semester, my professor discussed this in detail.

We've managed to find ways to treat heart disease and respiratory ailments/infections. Cancer is a tougher nut to crack.

Here's a link to the [CDC website that has 75 years of mortality in the US by cause](_URL_0_). You'll note that we've made progress in a lot of areas, but cancer is relatively stable. 

Because of that, more people die from it because they *aren't* dieing from other things.

Diagnostics have also gotten better at finding cancer sooner. This means that people might know they have extremely early stage tumors years before symptoms start. In the past, you knew you had cancer for maybe a year and then you just died.

Now people can have a cancer diagnosis for years.

TL;DR: Valar Morghulis, we're just better at other things, and we can detect it earlier now so people "have cancer" longer.
question: Why is cancer so prevalent nowadays?Pretty much everyone will have a close family member who suffers from cancer these days. I'm a little younger, so I'm not sure what people usually thought of cancer back before it was really understood. Is there a reason why it is so common now in contrast to decades ago? answer: Cancer is, by and large, an old person's disease. In order for cancer to be a major factor, the population has to live long enough to get it.

So, one key reason that cancer has become more prevalent is because people are living longer. There are also other environmental concerns.
question: Why is cancer so prevalent nowadays?Pretty much everyone will have a close family member who suffers from cancer these days. I'm a little younger, so I'm not sure what people usually thought of cancer back before it was really understood. Is there a reason why it is so common now in contrast to decades ago? answer: I think you got your answer here, but I want to sum it up as I have heard it: cancer is what kills you when everything else has failed. There is always a risk of cancer, and the longer you live, the more opportunities the universe has to screw up your DNA in just the right way that your cells start growing out of control. People are less likely to be killed by malaria and polio and the flu, so they are surviving long enough to lose to cancer.
question: Why is cancer so prevalent nowadays?Pretty much everyone will have a close family member who suffers from cancer these days. I'm a little younger, so I'm not sure what people usually thought of cancer back before it was really understood. Is there a reason why it is so common now in contrast to decades ago? answer: Life style choices also play a large part in this. For example links can be made between smoking, drinking and obesity as causes of cancer. Cancer research also suggests that it is said lifestyle choices that make white women as the highest risk ethnicity to develop breast cancer. However, some cancers develop in people who do not smoke or drink so I can't argue that these factors are the sole cause of cancer at all.
question: Why is cancer so prevalent nowadays?Pretty much everyone will have a close family member who suffers from cancer these days. I'm a little younger, so I'm not sure what people usually thought of cancer back before it was really understood. Is there a reason why it is so common now in contrast to decades ago? answer: Not to be the hippie of the thread, but I do think we introduce way more carcinogens into our bodies now than we used to. The chemicals that go into food, clothing, body care products, etc. are probably a big factor. (If it was just an age thing then we wouldn't be having twenty year olds and fifty year olds as the common age dying; living to fifty isn't that new by health standards).
question: Why is cancer so prevalent nowadays?Pretty much everyone will have a close family member who suffers from cancer these days. I'm a little younger, so I'm not sure what people usually thought of cancer back before it was really understood. Is there a reason why it is so common now in contrast to decades ago? answer: more people visiting doctors early, fewer people just sucking it up and living with the problems caused by cancer
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: I belong to a reenactment group. We wear full wool uniforms all summer. It's really not that bad. It's better than getting sunburnt as sunblock didn't exist back then.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: I spent a summer in the Emirates and believe me, the sun is absolutely scorching. Running around in a short sleeved shirt or shorts is something you do exactly once and, boy, will you regret that. 

I tried a lot of things, starting from cotton pants and long sleeved shirts to wearing linen suits (a significant improvement!) but once you tried a thawb (those white robes that look like pyjamas) you immediately understand why most locals wear them on a daily basis. 

The way I was told it works boils down to this: you block the sun from your skin (obviously) and the light cotton fabric can't store heat very well, so whatever of the sun's radiation isn't reflected in the first place doesn't heat up the fabric that much. Secondly, air is a pretty good insularor and since these garments are relatively wide, you have a layer of air between your body and the fabric that keeps the most intense heat away from your body. Furthermore, your sweat will evaporate and thus cool that air significantly. The cotton then allows the humidity to escape relatively easily. 

The combination of the loose fit and the light breathing fabric is absolutely killer, although it sounds counter-intuitive at first glance.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Clothing is insulation. It insulates you from the temperature outside. In the desert, for example, you wear clothing in order to keep the hot out (specifically, the sun). The clothing is essentially acting as shade that you wear on you.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: 1 - no artificial fabrics. Natural fabrics tend to breath much, much better. 

2 - propriety. Going outside, under most circumstances, without a suit jacket of some sort was considered rather scandalous. Even if you couldn't afford a jacket, very few people would be willing to be seen outdoors without a hat. 

3 - protection from the elements. In the desert, it's not always 110 degrees, and can often go from hot to frigid in a matter of hours. Additionally, it's much better to sweat a lot (which cools your body) than suffer harsh sunburn. 

4 - hygiene standards, while not as terrible as you might think, were still relatively relaxed back in those days.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Because Westerns are frequently set in the high desert where nights (even in the hot summer) can get [chilly quickly](_URL_0_).
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: For a true cowboy, the long coat and pants were essential.  If you ever have to ride a horse through thick brush, you'd understand.  Branches, mesquite thorns, other sharp pokey weeds, burrs, cactus, and brush are not your friends. All kinds of things seem intent on grabbing and clawing you from the saddle. Most long coats of the period were also oil cloth based or oil treated, meaning they shed water, too (for a while).  Most boots also went up to the knee for the same reason.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Try wearing loose, breathable, natural fiber clothes like linen and light cotton.  It's a lot cooler that shorts and short sleeves IME. 

There's some weird physics around how sweat cools the body that I can't explain.  Something about clothing increasing the surface area of contact and the clingy-ness increasing thermal conduction.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: No one else has mentioned it yet, but conditioning. When you don't have air conditioning, 80F doesn't feel quite as bad.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: I worked in kitchens for over a decade.  One day, they had a professional film crew in to shoot their commercial.  I got to 'show off' cooking steaks in my 4 broilers, ranging from 900 to 1500 F.

I did this for an entire dinner shift, mind you.  I would stand there, load up all of them full, and be pulling and pushing steaks around all night.  I was fine in a full chef's coat and pants.

The poor guy with the camera though.  From standing near the broilers for about 4 minutes, he's completely dripping with sweat.  Breathing hard, and had to go take a rest after that.

You basically just get used to it.  Drink a lot of water, etc.

In the case of 'the wild west', that protective gear kept you from having your skin fried off, having horrible biting insects, spiders, and snakes getting to your flesh, and generally provided some defense against sand totally removing your skin from your body.  

The benefits outweigh the heat.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Would I also be correct in assuming that people used to stink a lot more back then too? I mean it's not like they had air conditioning to keep cool and sweat free. Plus no running water for easy showering. Did it just seem normal for you to go into a saloon and everyone smelled awful? Or did everyone (men and women) just douse themselves in cologne or perfume all the time?
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Well firstly, deserts have very low humidity so 100 f is very different than it is on the east coast US. 

Along with that, deserts often get very cold at night or in winter.

Secondly, being hot is better than being sun burned. Its why in the middle east people where the body covering fabrics as often as they do. Like in UAE, its very hit there and the sun is painful. Thin cotton is very good in that area, wool clothing is more useful in the Mojave where it will get cold at times.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: The longer clothing keeps you protected from the elements: sun, cacti, animals/snakes, etc.  Brushing up against a cactus is not fun without long pants on
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Also, depending on the terrain you kind of want to wear long pants because you are very likely to get scratched up by plants and stuff. (Some varieties chaps are better, but lighter plants and stuff you might encounter in a forest, jeans or long pants are excellent.)

Not that they had a lot of shorts in the 19th century, per se. Certainly not if you were working, outside. I believe garments with that length might have existed but anyone being out in the country or working on a farm or other area, would value the protection to their legs. Some places, not as much as say, going through scrub or what not in the woods, but somewhat. 

Another funny thing is a lot of people, even cowboys, did not necessarily prefer cowboy hats to the exclusion of all other hats. There was a certain following of Bowler hats, which stay on your head well, and a lot of non-cowboy workmen and laborers wore that or other hats simply because of the fashion and the fact that they didn't necessarily need all the features of a Cowboy hat as much.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Dusters, pants, and hats were more to protect against elements.  It gets cold at night, sand in high wind stings, oilskin dusters and hats keep the rain off you, dont have to worry much at all about bugs and throwns when going through brush or thicket, sunburn was a thing but not sunscreen back in thay day.  Trust me you do not want to ride a horse with shorts on.  Being maybe slighly more hot is a bit preferable to these things.  The material they are made of is more like a thin leather skin than a coat.  It can keep you warm, maybe even cooler if the sun is beating down on you.

Source.  Im a Texan and I own these things and use them while camping.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: I can't find the material I'm about to reference but I watched an interview with Jake Gyllenhaal and he said that he was much cooler in all the thick leathers and layers he had in Prince of Persia than the guys shooting it in t-shirts. I think it must have to do with the fact that the sunlight is absorbed by the clothes and because of the layers there's insulation. Keeping the 103 temp heat out.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Old adage: "If it keeps you warm, it can keep you cool" As long as what you are wearing can absorb the heat and disperse it before it reaches you, with airflow underneath, it's portable shade.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: A lot of people are talking about the heat, but remember deserts aren't always hot. Westerns don't always take place in the summer, and even at night the temperature can drop quite a bit.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Grew up in El Paso TX,  NM and have horses.  Chaps or a long tailed coat will save your legs from catcus .   The long coats (dusters)  snap around your legs like Chaps.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: If it's 110 degrees in the desert, that 98.6 body heat starts to feel quite comfortable. So yeah, keep the outside heat out and give the inside heat the opportunity to get out.
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: Sun and wind applied directly to skin for hours at a time can result in 1st, 2nd, and even 3rd degree burns. That is worse than being "uncomfortable".
question: I often watch westerns where people are wearing long coats and pants in the summer/heat. How was this possible back then without being uncomfortable all the time? answer: ok, setting the wools and other natural fabrics a side, what about the leather chaps and full length duster. (were the dusters leather or fabric?)
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: There is more than one type of slavery.

In ancient Athens, conquered people became slaves, but their children were born free. They retired as free people, and it was really more like having your country invaded then being given a job you have to do.

Others like the Romans would keep foreigners as slaves, and you could be born a slave. These slaves were invisible though to society - they belonged to a household and had to do the jobs they were given, but they had time off, sometimes got paid, they fell in love and got married and had families. You couldn't tell if someone walking up the street was a slave or not. These slaves are the ancestors of the European peasant, the common folks. It was only in about the 17th century or so that we got the idea that people should be allowed to say 'no' if their Lord told them to do something.

The American South did not view Africans as human beings, but as animals. They broke up families, they engaged in forced breeding programs where men were beaten until they raped the woman they were told to breed with, they recklessly endangered slaves lives, they did not allow any sort of dignity. 'Chattel' slavery is the most powerfully dehumanizing form of slavery, and it only ever existed in the Caribbean and American South.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: What do you mean by notorious? If you mean, "why does it get talked about so much?" it's because of the importance of the U.S. in the world (and especially to itself) and the importance of slavery to the history of the United States. 

The United States was one of the last major countries to abandon chattel slavery, and---as far as I know---the only major country where so much of its structure and history was shaped by slavery and dealing with the aftermath of slavery. It is also a country that, more so than almost any other, thinks of itself as a "free" country open to all, something that is directly opposed to the idea of slavery. 

These things just aren't as true of other places that had slavery, even where conditions might have been worse, or occurred earlier.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: OP clearly had an agenda he's trying to push, he's arguing with everyone in the comments. You should probably post this in r/changemyview.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Doesnt matter who started it. What matters is that the US continued using slavery long after its contemporaries banned it. Also chattel slavery was much worse than any other type of slavery. Stuck in the situation for life while the master could kill a slave for any reason. Just property
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: The main difference in my opinion is that slavery in the US was based solely on RACE. You cannot change your race, and you are born with that race. In addition, American slaves were objects/chattel, not people. And you were a slave for life, your children were slaves, etc. 

Slavery in Africa was usually the result of war or conflict. And they were treated like people still- albeit with restricted freedom. And depending on the status of the conflict, etc., your status could change. They were considered people, not objects. 

Not to mention that the south created an entire economy based on the enslavement of african americans.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: I'm going to diverge a bit from the other answers. From what I recently learned studying the American Revolution, like the French one, it was centered around ideas of liberty and self-determination. The American Revolution did not deliver on those promises for all, just like the French Revolution did not free slaves also. However, by the time the AR happened there was pressures within revolutionaries and from French intellectuals (including Lafayette) about the disconnect between AR ideas and the continuation of slavery. IIRC by this time, France had abolished slavery. Haiti had also had a revolution and freed itself from slavery. What this meant was that while the FR and its ideas continued to have resonance around the world, the AR was seen as hypocritical and one that did not deliver on its promises. Even Jefferson, who was Lafeyette's buddy, contemplated freeing slaves but did not ultimately deliver. 

Slavery has been on the American conscience for a long time. Combined with the U.S.'s rise as a superpower and self-proclaimed moral authority, slavery and civil rights continued to be an issue that actually undercut the way Americans imagined their country, revolution, and projected the image of their country. Some historians like Barrington Moore, thus, in part do not even consider the AR as a revolution, opting instead to count the Civil War as one, because they believe there was not enough revolutionary change during the AR. 

I hope this answers at least part of your question.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Selling to who? Other Africans or Westerners? Could you clarify?

If you mean selling to Europeans and Americans - you need to remember that you are applying a modern and Western definition of blackness that does not apply to Africa at this time.

African nations do not really consider themselves "Black" in the American sense. They consider themselves African and whatever nation they come from. This also applied to pre-Atlantic Slave Trade Africa - they were not "black", but instead identified based on whatever kingdom or city-state they lived in.

Taking this into consideration, Africans were not "selling their own" because they did not consider these people their own. They were often selling prisoners of war from rival states. They did not relate with these people. It would be like Italians selling French people into slavery - just because they are both European doesn't mean they consider each other their own.

There were also economic and political pressures for African kingdoms to do this. And after the Atlantic Slave Trade boomed - Westerners began to kidnap many Africans instead of buying them directly. The demand for slaves was just so high that Westerners resorted to this and could get away with it.

You also need to recognize that these African states did not realize what the Atlantic Slave Trade would entail. They didn't know that people would be chained and packed into slave ships where they would be laying in their own vomit and filth. They did not realize that many of these people would die before even reaching America and that the rest of them would be brutally beaten and dehumanized. American slavery is talked about even today because it was a vile and gruesome form of slavery that was unprecedented at the time.

So while, yes, Africans did sell other Africans into Western slavery initially, that does not mean that you can hold them accountable for the atrocities that American slaves lived through.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: I don't think people really care that America HAD slaves because everyone had slaves but care that the US is still dealing with the social consequences of slavery.

In WW2 many soldiers stationed in the Europe where surprised that there was less segregation and that mixed raced dating was more acceptable. The civil rights movement happened in living memory and many people believe that blacks still aren't given fair treatment. The debates about the confederate battle flag shows that at least one group in society isn't moving on from the past.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: The slaves in African communities at the time were more like servants, they were a part of the community they could have children, they sometimes had relationships with their "owners" they were given time off to be with their families. Yes they worked hard but they were still treated relatively well. 

The slaves in America came on ships, shackled to the floors, with four feet of space between decks of other slaves. Have you seen those trucks on the highway packed to the brim with cattle or pigs. That was the amount of space given to these men and women. They did not have a place to relieve themselves so more often that not they were lying in their own filth for the duration of the journey. More than half of the slaves died on the month long journeys to the new world and more than a few lost their minds by the time they arrived. 

The conditions they faced when they were here was reprehensible as well. They were worked 14-16 hours a day, punished severely for minor "misdemeanors", hurt or killed for sport or boredom. When and if they did have families they were often separated and sold to other plantation owners, if you were born into slavery, you were the property of your mother's owner. 

There was a discernible difference between the kind of profit driven slavery of the americas that sets it apart from most other places at that time. 

Most of this is well documented in "A people's history of the United States" - Zinn, a long read but it's a no holds barred retelling of the history of the U.S.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Hey OP, I see some folks have engaged you in good faith, but it quite obvious that your efforts here aren't.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: True there was slavery all over the world including Africa but we all know that U.S slavery was not the same slavery (servitude) happening in other parts of the world. Part of the reason that the U.S is getting crap for slavery is the fact that it hasnt been that long since it was banned (at least overtly)... the after affects still continue to this day. Most of the time when slavery of other cultures is brought up, the period of time when it happened was long ago and the after affects and ill feelings about it have had more time to subside... 

Why is it that when African slavery is brought up we get this rebuttal of: "They sold themselves into slavery"? As if thats supposed to make it ok or excuse the terrible treatment of PEOPLE (not animals)... 
 "oh they did it to themselves so we may as well do it them as well. And their children, and their childrens children." When did excusing that become a thing? 

If you like to cut yourself with razors, is it ok for someone else to come along and tie you up with razor wire and cut you with a machete simply because "you did it to yourself first"... (im not intending for that to be a trigger or mock anyone.)
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Large scale farming and plantation was possible because of slave labor; without its valuable agricultural exports, America wouldn't have achieved economic sustainability. America's ability to be independent was thanks to slave labor, making slaves a vital part of the country's history.

The African slaves also created a unique community which adds to the broader American identity as a mixing pot, like any other immigrant population - though they were the only one brought here unwillingly, incidentally. 

Lastly, owing to that agricultural foundation, the American practice of slavery continued past that of other superpowers and its cessation lead to global consequences.

Slavery was a cruel practice with no room in civilized society, and it's important to study and preserve its roots in order to appreciate its continued effect - including the first-world's current dependence upon third-world slave labor.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Because you likely live in the US dumbo. And not to mention we go around talking about land of the free and shit and people love to knock someone who tries to be a moral authority/world police down a peg or two. Kind of like when Palin was all abstinence only education and has gotten knocked up twice or those homophobic lawmakers who keep getting blowjobs in airport bathrooms. We are held to a high standard because we set ourselves up to a high standard.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: From what I learned in Black History class in the 90's, the African concept of slavery was radically different from the US concept. As in slaves were treated as human beings and could even eventually earn their freedom and marry into the family. 
I guess it wasn't as barbaric?
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Because we're Americans. So we're interested in American history. Not African history.

Other countries had slaves too. But America is far more self-critical than most countries.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Because they were the only civilised country still doing it after others stopped?
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Black slaves were brought to the US, pretty much because, if they ran away, as white indentured servants had been doing, you could pretty easily tell they were slaves, and be returned.

Africans had slaves, but they werent slaves just because they were black, they were slaves because they were captured. 

Its kind of fed up to make someone a slave just because they were different than you.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Brazil also imported close to twice the number of slaves as the US. Working conditions in Brazil were so severe that they were not as successful at having native born populations.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: The UK and the US abolished slavery at about the same time.

In the UK, slavery was ended through typical legal means, racism didn't flow as strongly, and blacks quickly assimilated into a culture that was willing to right it's wrongs.  If you listen to a black UK native speak, they sound just like the whites.

In the US, slavery was ended as a result of the civil war.  This did not lead to a natural death of the ideologies that supported racism, and even after slavery was abolished it was another 100 years before blacks had civil rights.  The centuries of bigotry resulted in blacks developing along a distinct path culturally in the US, which still shows today.

This is why slavery is seen as such a big deal in the US.  Whites continued to look for ways to perpetuate the injustices of slavery even after we ended it.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Because in the U.S. slavery was organized into the visual and spatial differences classified through race. Slaves could not work for their freedom, as they did throughout other historical periods. Instead, belonging to a racial group slaves in the U.S. were forever classified as property. It added a different element from a socio-economic caste system or other form of organization found in other cultures, and the images and depictions which were largely a result of modernity, the racial element, and the inscription into society is what made the U.S. so "notorious".
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: Because most people don't care about what happens in Africa.  They care about what hits closer to home.

 > so far the majority of this thread only proves that the issue in question is not only very real, but will be defended rather than questioned or discussed logically.

You're just a fucking idiot.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: > Edit: so far the majority of this thread only proves that the issue in question is not only very real, but will be defended rather than questioned or discussed logically.

Lol. So it's true then. You just wanted to stir up beef, you don't actually care for the question.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: The book, *The Half Has Never Been Told* will give you a good understanding of American slavery and how it was different. Others here have covered the main points, which are Americans 1) based slavery on race alone; 2) created a religious theology which sanctioned slavery; and 3) treated slaves as property and not as human which led owners to destroy families and community.

When one truly understands the evil of American slavery, one can only stand in awe of African Americans who overcame, survived, and thrived.
question: Why is the U.S. so notorious for using Africans as slaves, when Africans had been using and selling Africans as slaves long before Europeans brought them to the Americas? answer: This thread is full of /r/badhistory. Don't ask a history question on ELI5. Go to /r/AskHistorians, read the FAQ, then ask your question.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: I feel like the question was "Does it gulp a lot of water into it's stomach along with the food and does the water stay there or does it somehow get pushed out. And the reason this is an interesting question would be, does gulping large quantities of water mean that the shark is always ingesting way more water than food? And does that affect how it has to eat.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: It goes into the blood and is dispersed to the cells like anything else, then excreted as needed. The wastes are filtered and excreted as well.... 

Yup. 

Same as what happens when you drink anything.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Dunno about sharks but crocs actually have a false palette at the back of their throat to prevent swallowing water when gripping things underwater. They will certainly tear out chunks underwater but they will only consume the meat above water by tilting their heads back to swallow the chunks they tore off. Whatever water is swallowed using *this* method is not a big deal for the crocs.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Sharks differ from bony fish in the way they handle saltwater.  Most fish have to drink large amounts of water to make up for what they lose to the salinity of the ocean.  Bony fish drink a lot and their kidneys are powerhouses that remove the excess salt.  

Sharks instead generate a lot of urea throughout their body which counterbalances the salt in the ocean water.  The urea (and other chemicals) make their tissues nearly as salty as the ocean.  They also excrete salt using a gland in their rectum - a similar gland appears in birds and some reptiles around their eyes, nostril or mouth.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Crocodiles can't eat underwater. In fact if one grabs you and pulls you under your best bet is to put your arm in its mouth and try to force open the flap at the back of its throat. If it doesn't let you go it will drown.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: As others have said, crocodiles have a false palate to avoid too much water in, but they still swallow amounts of water (they don't wait for the food or even their mouth to drain before swallowing). Think of when you eat meat in broth or soup. As for sharks and if they would ask if humans eat air, it's actually true. We ingest air which is why we burp, especially when eating fast (it's not all stomach gases like cows and methane). Moms have to make babies burp because they ingest air, and if people want to force a burp, you need to swallow air.

In fact we also get water from food. It depends on the food content because some food needs water to be digested, but there are some desert rodents that get all their water from the food they eat (seeds, insects etc). The point is that food and water consumption are not separate. ~~There~~ The body doesn't go into "food mode" then "water mode", but our digestive systems separate them.

Edit1: There/The

Edit2: To clarify about 'water burps', that was to explain the comments about 'eating air' in humans. Adding much more detail, trying to keep it Eli5:

Crocodiles, as humans, could get water into their lungs when eating. Humans avoid this when swallowing, when our tongue and other muscles close the way to the thrachea (airway) while letting food and water into the oesophagus (let's say 'foodway'), but we can still breathe while chewing. Crocodiles, as OP asked, need to bite underwater which would mean water getting into their lungs. That's why they have the palatal valve, like a trapdoor, but it actually closes both airway and foodway. This helps while biting (they don't chew, they break off chunks small enough to swallow), but they need to get out of the water to open the palatal valve and swallow. Bonus fact, they have a special tube from the nostrils to the airway, letting them breathe even with the palatal valve closed, like a snorkel. They can close their nostrils when swimming.

Sharks of course don't breathe air, and they don't have lungs. They get oxygen by getting water though their mouth  (and spiracle, a hole behind the eyes) and filtering the oxygen then throwing water out through the gills. They actually need water getting into their mouth to survive and many species need to move to help this. When they eat they just take water in as usual, and some goes to their stomach, becoming part of what they digest and then expel. Like others said, [urea in sharks keeps water concentration in their body balances with the sea water so they don't need to 'drink' as other fish do](_URL_0_). If we keep talking about water burps then these would be when they expel water through their gills, although sharks can vomit and even turn their stomach inside out to clear it (you can search shark stomach eversion).
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: There is a great BBC series 'Inside nature's giants', look for the episodes abt the great white shark and the crocodile, you won't regret it. The whole series is fabulos. They open up those species and show and explain like everything, how do they breathe, eat, move, everything. Highly recommended!
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Water that rushes into the mouth of gilled animals is pushed out of their gills. The water entering the mouth during feeding gets pushed out the gills, and any that is swallowed is processed by the body the same way it  is when you drink water. They've got special glands in their digestive system to get rid of the excess salt.

Edit: a few words, more detail
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: "Once an alligator captures something, it will hold it in its mouth and drag it underwater to drown it. It must then get back above water to swallow it -- otherwise, the alligator's stomach and lungs would fill with water. Using its incredibly powerful jaws (which are able to exert up to 2,000 PSI), an alligator will break bones or crush shells (in the case of turtles) to create a chunk of flesh that can fit down its throat. Then it will raise its head, open the palatal valve and swallow the piece whole. An alligator can digest anything it swallows -- muscle, bone, cartilage, etc. are all digested completely."

So just like mammals can't inhale a bunch of water without drowning, neither can gators. They keep they're throat closed while underwater and come up to swallow their prey without getting a mouthful of water. As far as Sharks and predatory fish, I'm assuming they swallow water all the time.

Here's the [link](_URL_1_)  where I found this info if you would like to read more about gators!
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: This is a very great question! You have been getting a lot of information on sharks and other fish. This is all good information about how fish evolved to live in an environment entirely of water. So I am going to answer your other question related to crocodiles, caimans, alligators and others in Crocodilia group. Unlike sharks, crocodiles need both land and water in order to survive. This creates a dilemma for these species, as they had to specialize for two completely different environments. So all members in the Crocodilia group have developed biological methods to make sure the creature doesnt intake too much water. One evolutionary system they have is what is called a palatal valve. It is a large flap in the back of their throat that opens and closes when they need to. This prevents water from rushing into their lungs when they open their mouths underwater. It also helps when they are hunting and dragging prey underwater. (Or eating the prey they dragged into the water!)

Source: Im about to graduate with my Bachelors in wildlife biology

I am linking a picture of the palatal valve in the throat of one of these creatures. Hope that helps! (NSFW)

_URL_2_:
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Not 100% sure about crocodiles (think they often surface to swallow big chunks) but fish just swallow it.

In order to maintain the correct salt balance in their bodies fresh water fish actually constantly "pee", but their urine is highly diluted and pretty much just water. Their blood is more salty than the surrounding water so their kidneys retain most of the salt and rapidly pass as much water as possible. Salt water fish have the opposite problem, their blood is less salty than the water so they loose water though osmosis, their kidneys work hard to filter out excess salt from ingested water, but retain as much water in their tissue as possible, so they produce very little urine and it's mostly concentrated salt.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Another ELI5 could have been "how do sharks manage to live drinking salty water?", same answer, they dont "drink" as such as their bodies exchange water due to the fact they are totally immersed in it. A tiny bit like why you go all wrinkly if you stay too long in the bath.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Most of the others answered this well, but consider this as a super ELI5 for fish. They live in the water and most breathe it. Where does all the air go when you swallow food? Definitely nota scientific answer but an easier way to compare apples to oranges
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: I feel like asking another question to give you a different perspective.

When we eat something, what happens to the air? Do we swallow it?

Remember that even outside of water, we're still living inside a fluid.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: It might help to think of your food sitting in a giant pool of air. How do you eat without consuming vast quantities of air? As you reduce the volume of your mouth by clenching your jaw, you hold the food with your teeth or tongue or even just gravity while your throat is closed. Your mouth stays open and the fluid (air for you and water for sharks etc) leaves via your mouth and then, once most of the fluid is out of your mouth, you open your throat and swallow.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: You know how sometimes you get air in your stomach?  Then you burp, because you live in air.   
Things that live in water can burp water!
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: I'm gonna have to drink large amounts of air as well?
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Hi! I'm a Marine Bio student and I think I can answer the part of your question pertaining to sharks. Sharks can regulate their internal salt content through what's called a rectal gland. Essentially they process the salt to keep their bodies at a Hyposmotic state, so that way Water can diffuse through their skin and into their systems. The rectal gland essentially let's them excrete any of the salt they do not need to maintain the osmoregularity. Their a bunch of extra complicated stuff involving urea in their tissues, but I'll avoid that for my above answer.

TL;DR: They do swallow some of the salt water, they are just able to process the salt out of their body
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: The piece on sharks by the top poster is accurate, crocodiles are much different. Crocodiles have a filter called an endoplasmic reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum helps to divert impurities out of the water, and the water that is taken in when they are eating prey does go to their stomach. The fatty cells digest the water and it is pushed out through the endoplasmic reticulum keeping the gator from becoming waterlogged. I would know as I am married to a crocodile.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: I'm not sure about crocodiles, but sharks filter water out when they are eating. They take a bite and any water they take in flows out though their gills. They can sometimes swallow some water, yes, and they also can expel food out of their gills by accident sometimes. I work as an aquarist with sharks and have seen a squid stuck in a sharks gills because of this.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: I know baleen whales, such as the humpback and Blue whale, filter feed. They take in large amounts of water making them twice as heavy in that state. The whale then pushes it's tongue up to force the water through the baleen acting as filters letting the water out but keeping the prey, such as krill, in allowing it to swallow. I hope that helps.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: I can't speak about sharks, but crocs have a valve (called the palatal valve) that closes off their throat when underwater. They keep their heads above water when they eat, tilting their heads back in a series of snaps to maneuver the food down their throat without swallowing water.  

Source: [Here](_URL_3_) and I watch a lot of nature shows!
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: I like how every single person has said something about the way it was written instead of answering the question. To answer the question. I'm pretty sure that's why fish have gills, not only to breath but to release the excess water. Why do u think whales and dolphins have blow holes....
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: A crocodile has a valve in its mouth that allows it to opens its mouth in the water by shutting of its throat so water wont come in. I hope this helps a bit. Crocodiles also dont eat under water
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: In the case of sharks/fish the excess water is evacuated via the gills. This functions sort of like a net in that the water passes out while the solids are diverted to the stomach.
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Wait, do fish and reptiles in water always have water in their mouth or when they close theirs mouths does the water get pushed out?
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: I always thought some of the water can be expelled through the gills. Is this not a thing?
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Think about this - when humans eat, where does all the air go when we swallow?
question: Sharks, crocodiles etc. When they eat in the water their prey, where does all the water goes when they swallow? Do they somehow filter meat from water or do they just swallow it all? answer: Where does all the air go when you eat?
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: You know what? The answers here stink. 

You could ask a Muslim sub (especially an ask/debate/101-style sub) but it might be seen as a bit inflammatory and you'll probably get rubbish answers of a different kind there too.

My best advice is to ask /r/exmuslim - they know their Islam over there so well that they dislike it, but if you explain that you want to get some of the background behind it then you'll probably get a few people who know their hadiths and what have you to give a critical overview of that part of Muhammad's life. And they're a pretty funny bunch too.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: You either believe all of the writings or none of them, either he was a prophet from God and married a 9 year old, or none of it happened?

Please, also remember, that the reasons for him marrying the girl were not so he could fuck a kid, but so that she would be under his ward, as she was an orphan she had no one available to look after her ... or so the writings explain.

The Hadith, is also based upon the words of others and not the original religious text, anyone could have written anything in there.

This is all coming from a non-religious person that actually researched the topic rather than thought he'd get a cheap giggle and post some bullshit loaded ELI like a fucking dick. 

**EDIT** Just to add, there seems to be an insane amount of chaps choosing parts of the Hadith, which again was not the original religious text, the Quran, and only accepting those as complete truths simply because they can twist those sections to fit an agenda of hate and ignorance. It also states that Muhammad was a messenger from God? That must be true as well then? Since it's all scripture! No pun intended.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: I have follow up question: Was the marriage consummated when she was still a child?
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: Religion is weird, and times have changed. Many things that happen in religious texts would be considered quite strange or perverted, but it's possible it's just a story I guess.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: Well, Thomas Jefferson owned slaves his entire life and even took one as a concubine, but people still seem to think the things he had to say are worth studying, talking about, and even abiding by.

Same thing.  We are all subject to the moral standards and norms of the cultures in which we are born and live our lives.  It might be that, 1000 years from now, we'd all be guilty of any number of decidedly horrible crimes, but that doesn't mean we cannot contribute anything of value.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: As far as I was told by my religious family members. The girl was an orphan and the only way she was allowed to live in Muhammeds house only if he married her at that time. The accuracy of the story I don't know.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: Joseph was supposed to be around 90 when he married Mary, who was around 12. Let's just say that the first millenium was a shitty time to be an underage girl.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: I wouldn't expect to get a Straight answer on the subject. There are too many religious fundamentalists out there who will justify their position using rhetorical technique and never actually address the question.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: Historical records can be spotty. There are diagreements about her age. The most generous view is that she was married at 9 years old, which is what I heard originally, and she had sex at age 12. This is what I believe.

So, my simplest explanation for this behavior is:

1. Morality changes based on the conditions in which a society lives. When circumstance changes, generally speaking, so does morality, or what is acceptable, and not acceptable. For example, it's generally thought of as cruel to kill another person. However, when they are threatened the views change, and then it turns into "self defense." Morality, or what we call morality, is not rigid, or fixed.


2. People didn't live as long back then. Dying younger was very common. There was no saving anything for the future. It was do it today or never. However, it should be noted that the low average life span was due to babies dying. But in terms of how society perceived their own longevity that is the most important part. If people thought they would die in their 40s that is a rather short time to live. Therefore people would be more pressed to do things that they would think beneficial, including marrying earlier, and having a family.

3. Giving birth was no easy task. It isn't now, but today in a proper hospital you will generally come out alive. Back then birth was an extremely perilous task. It was of crucial importance a woman, or girl rather, be in the best shape to give birth; otherwise, that would result in her death. So, it was the general view that a young girl would be best suited to have a baby.

4. Men often went to war and died, or were involved in deadly conflict. That meant a woman could be left as a widower, which would have devastating consequences. If she was too old, somewhat like today, that meant she could not get remarried  and/or be capable of taking care of her child. Therefore, having a child at a younger age would be beneficial. Imagien that you had a baby when 12, and then your husband died, 10 years later. You'd still be attractive at 22 years old. 

Nowadays many people have babies at age 30. But imagine that 10 years passed. Then she would be 40. No problem today, right? Because a woman can earn. But back then that was not the case. A woman could not earn for herself. So the idea that women marry young was largely perpetuated by sexism, and inequality.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: Marriage isnt the right word for that time and place. She was spoken for. If a woman had no tribe or was not spoken for there was no repercussions for anything that happened to her. He took many wives to keep them safe.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: Because she was not, and texts pointing at her age are most likely wrong. Also a 6 or 9-year old girl isn't considered as "old enough" anyway in Islam

Some actual research here:

_URL_0_
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: I thought this was under r/jokes so I was confused when there was no punchline.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: Cuz he lived the thug life, he could fuck yo bitch if he wanted to.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: If you read this, check the labels on your clothes to see if they were made in Bangladesh, Indonesia or Pakistan. If so, it is highly likely that children of under 9 were involved directly in the manufacturing process (7.9 million children between 5 and 17 years old to be precise [source](_URL_4_) ). They work long hours - which would be forbidden in OECD countries - for a pittance, and are fired for any hint of unionisation. Does the fact that our link to these children is at a geographical remove and part of a larger economic system absolve us from responsibility from the lives they are forced to lead? Just pointing out that any exploitation is easily justified as an inevitable part of a larger socioeconomic system.

[source 1](_URL_4_) [source 2](_URL_4_) [source 3](_URL_4_) [source 4](_URL_4_)

BTW How can anyone respect Thomas Jefferson or George Washington seeing as they were slave owners? Even if they advocated for reform, they knowingly used slave labour throughout their adult lives. If your answer is: "They were good men but trapped in their time, so we can respect them when thus contextualised", then please explain LI5 why this same line of reasoning cannot be applied to the prophet Mohammed?

EDIT: This all does not exonerate any paedophile behaviour by anybody, but I want to de-isolate all the well-meaning muslim-bashing going on right now. Let's look in a big cultural mirror before bearing down on others too quickly, eh?
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: Alliances I believe. It was important for the Prophet to have strong and valuable allies in the early days of Islam, which meant marrying their daughters. One just happened to 6 at the time.

But don't forget that the Prophet married a 40 year old woman when he was 25. She was his employer and she proposed to him. They were monogamously married for 25 years, until the Prophet was 50. He was deeply saddened by her death and called it the saddest year of his life and remained so for the rest of his life. It took a year until he remarried.

So let's be fair and have both sides guys.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: I'm not a historian by an means and I don't actually know the story here but it wasn't uncommon for men to marry girls who were very young (in some cases toddlers) only to consummate the marriage when the girl came of age (whatever that may be given the context).

Edit: okay did a little more reading and they consummated when she was nine. That's really really messed up.
question: Why did Mohammad marry a 6 year old? answer: It was an agreement to marry her when she came of age. She lived with her father until she was old enough to be married. 

You also must remember that in those days people got married very young, it isn't the same as today's standards.
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: Muscle memory. An experienced guitarist isn't looking or feeling the frets, either. Your hands eventually just know where to go.
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: From experience you just get a certain instinct for it. You know the positions for various common notes, and since "uncommon" notes are just intervals above or below "common" notes it's pretty easy to play them even if you don't exactly know the finger position immediately. But really after awhile you don't even think about it anymore.

EDIT: Grammar
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: You start with small stickers indicating the 4 most regular used positions  (at least I did when learning to play violin), that way you can see where to put your fingers. Pretty quickly you get a feeling of where to put your fingers and you can remove the stickers. As for notes beyond the 4 mentioned positions, it comes instinctively I would say, once you get a feel for the instrument. Playing the violin is not much different from playing the guitar IMO (aside from the increased freedom of the missing frets on a violin)
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: In addition to what others have said, sometimes students put tiny slivers of tape on the neck as an aid until they gain the muscle memory.
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: I play double-bass and I've got the intonation thing down to a science now. I tape little pieces of felt to the back of my bass's neck. When my thumb hits felt, I know which note is underneath my other fingers on the fingerboard. This way I don't have to spend so much time forcing my muscles to remember hand positions.
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: Scales and arpeggios are the DNA of common practice music, and the "map" of non-fretted string instruments.  They are certainly a boring chore to practice for many years, but they are invaluable in learning how to play in tune, and sight read most regular tonal music.  

To give violin as an example (because the situation is a bit more complex for cello), composers think about how their material is going to fit into various standard "positions" - if they want to write a fast passage that the instrumentalists will have to learn at speed, or sight read, they have to rely on stock figurations that fall conveniently within one of the standard positions, to minimise shifts up and down.  

Over time the anchor location of these positions becomes second nature and violinists can just look at a long sequence of notes and figure out how they are going to finger it in the most efficient way.  

Furthermore, if in doubt, string instrumentalists can check positions by softly playing certain harmonics that appear at points proportional to the length of the string.
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: Upright bass player here!

Its half muscle memory and half ear. When you first learn you can some time mark on the neck where certain notes are, personally I played bass guitar before upright and aside from my hand position going from horizontal to vertical the note spacing was pretty much the same so I relied a lot on the fact that my fingers already 'knew' where to go for what note. The top four 'frets' are easy to remember because you can anchor your hand placement to the nut by the headstock and then you can base your hand position from there. For notes farther down the neck, my anchor point became the slope where the neck joined the body. I'd plant my thumb there and I knew directly above my thumb was the fifth 'fret' and that c was where I based my positioning off of lower down on the neck
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: Related question: How do trombone players learn the positions? The answer for violins seems to be putting tape on the fretboard until muscle memory develops, but I can't imagine trombone players can use the same tape trick.
question: How to violinists and cellists know where to put their fingers for a certain note when they have no frets? answer: Trombone player so slightly similar. You get used to where its supposed to be and then you use your ear.
question: Besides actually getting people there, what other problems does science need to overcome before humans could live on Mars? answer: Oh, let's count the ways that all those science fiction dreams of huge colonies on Mars aren't quite as feasible as the self-appointed futurists seem to think:

--The radiation. Once you leave the protection of the Earth's magnetic field, you begin to die of radiation exposure. Just a "fast" trip to Mars is enough to significantly increase your risk of developing cancer. To live on Mars full-time, you'd need shielded habitats, covered in, say, a meter of concrete. But how do you intend to BUILD those habitats? Schlep cranes and bulldozers to Mars? And how do you propose to shield people when they go outside (or when they're building the habitat)? A shielded habitat also means no windows to look out of and no sunlight coming in. Hope you brought lotsa Grow Lights or a fuckton of vitamin D. Actually, even full Martian daylight doesn't contain enough sunlight to be healthy to humans.

--The atmosphere. Mainly CO2, very low pressure. A colony will need air. Now, if you have plenty of water, and plenty of energy (solar power probably ain't gonna cut it here, that's a whole other can-o-worms), you can break water down into hydrogen and oxygen...but air is almost 80% nitrogen, and that's something Mars is noticeably short on. The ISS requires regular resupply of both oxygen and nitrogen, but that's low Earth orbit we're talking, not Mars (and oh yeah, by the way, for practical reasons, you can only launch a vehicle to Mars from Earth about every two years).

--The gravity. The gravity of Mars is only about 38% that of Earth, so long-term colonists are going to find that they lose significant muscle and bone mass, even with exercise. We have no idea what the long-term effects of living in reduced gravity are.

--The soil. You wanna grow food in dirt on Mars? Then it sucks to be you. The soil on Mars contains toxic levels of perchlorates. That's good news if you want to open a planet-wide chain of dry cleaning stores, not so much if you wanna live with the stuff. Be careful not to track any back into the habitat when you go outside (to, um, frolic in the deadly radiation), because that shit will start to build up in the atmospheric system. For a permanent colony, keeping it from building up in the habitat is essentially impossible.

--The habitat. We simply don't know how to build a self-sustaining habitat on Earth, let alone someplace where the environment wants us dead. Not a clue. We don't even know *for sure* that it's possible on a small scale. Resupplying a small colony, let alone a large one, from Earth would be ruinously expensive, and perhaps not even technically feasible.

And those are just the big ones.

On top of all this, howzabout a reason it SHOULDN'T be done? I mean, aside from the obvious that it would cost hundreds of billions to trillions of dollars, yet serve no useful purpose beyond the gee-whiz factor (we can do the science for about a *tenth* of the cost with robots).

Contamination. We have had a few tantalizing clues about past or even current life on Mars, but the moment we plant the first muddy human bootprint there, it's game over for science. It's hard enough to sterilize a robot without reducing it to a pile of ash, but people are walking contamination machines. It is simply not possible to put people there and NOT hopelessly contaminate the environment. After that moment, any discovery made of life on Mars would come with built-in doubt about whether it was pristine, or the result of Earth contamination.
question: Besides actually getting people there, what other problems does science need to overcome before humans could live on Mars? answer: Improved radiation shielding is a big one. The amount of radiation is less of a concern than the prolonged exposure the astronauts would be subject to on a 500 day mission.
question: Besides actually getting people there, what other problems does science need to overcome before humans could live on Mars? answer: The next big problem is sustainability. The ISS has regular shipments of supplies to keep its residents with sufficient food, water, and breathable air. Such shipments would be more difficult on Mars (thus the importance of finding frozen water on the planet). I'm pretty sure the technology exists (using hydroponics to grow plants to scrub CO2 and generate oxygen), but it is still a huge logistics problem to get such an thing set up and running efficiently enough to sustain life between shipments from earth.
question: Besides actually getting people there, what other problems does science need to overcome before humans could live on Mars? answer: They need to be able to start the reactor to melt the glacier deep within the mountains. C'mon Cohaagen, give these people air!
question: Besides actually getting people there, what other problems does science need to overcome before humans could live on Mars? answer: Air to breath, water to drink, food to eat, shelter from cosmic radiation to live in, air pressure to keep their bodies from exploding; all the basic things the Earth provides are missing on Mars except for gravity and sand to stand on.

While Blue Mars is a fabulous science fiction concept, and a great trilogy, it's a logistics problem that's beyond our current capability to solve.
question: Why do police officers have bullet proof vests for covering vital organs when often times they leave their heads unprotected?I understand that SWAT teams and riot folks have helmets, but what about regular police? answer: Shooting someone in the head at anything but *really* close range is difficult.  

Most gunshots are to the body, a much larger target.  So they protect the body.  

This is a bit of speculation but I suspect that wearing helmets would make police officers more threatening and less approachable.  Since they are supposed to be viewed as approachable sources of safety/law, wearing full helmets (with masks to protect the face) makes them more like stormtroopers than people.
question: Why do police officers have bullet proof vests for covering vital organs when often times they leave their heads unprotected?I understand that SWAT teams and riot folks have helmets, but what about regular police? answer: Well there are two major reasons. One is a cost to benefit scenario, in which it may not be beneficial to wear head gear, thus limiting your awareness and vision on the off chance that you get shot in the head. It turns out that a HUGE number of people just plain can't shoot well enough to hit a guy in the head. The benefits of a helmet are really not all that great either. If you get hit squarely in the head, even while wearing a helmet, the kinetic energy is still likely to snap your neck or break your skull (IF the helmet stops the round which is a big IF).

The other reason is societal. People don't want to see police officers riding around with helmets on, because they look too much like soldiers. With societies view on the militarization of the police already frowning on that, this would make it much worse.
question: Why do police officers have bullet proof vests for covering vital organs when often times they leave their heads unprotected?I understand that SWAT teams and riot folks have helmets, but what about regular police? answer: Contrary to popular belief helmets are not there to stop bullets, they are there to protect the head from shrapnel, debris, and other hazards. 

There simply is no utility to wearing a helmet in day-to-day activities for a police officer. They are not spending their whole day involved in shootouts or taking down perps. Much of it is spent sitting in cars, doing paperwork, and patrolling.
question: Why do police officers have bullet proof vests for covering vital organs when often times they leave their heads unprotected?I understand that SWAT teams and riot folks have helmets, but what about regular police? answer: Because they can't to their jobs with they heads encased in kevlar.

Short of being a little warm and uncomfortable, a vest does not restrict what they can to.  But if they want to see and hear and talk and breath, they need an uncovered head.

Also, because the body is much larger, most people are going to aim for it and not the head.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: The current view that I'm aware of is that it is generally a learned trait in order to solidify their identity as a gay person, both internally and in terms of belonging to the greater group of gay people.

There's interesting reading [here](_URL_0_).
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Another thing to consider: you don't notice most gay guys who don't sound like that and so are probably counting them with the straight guys and confirming your idea of the two groups (which isn't a terrible crime on your part, just automatic brain stuff).

Also: If a straight guy had these speech patterns naturally, there would be pretty strong social pressure to "fix" it so he doesn't appear gay (because that's bad), whether consciously from, say, a dad or brother trying to instill traditional masculinity, or unconsciously from teasing male classmates, or subliminally through getting passed over by women he'd be interested in dating because they're either unattracted or think he's gay because that's what he's signalling with the speech patterns because everyone knows that's what flamboyant gay men sound like.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: You know, I've never thought about this, but then... how do women who have that stereotypical "girlie voice" sound that way?  I don't sound like that either.  I reckon it's the same cultural factors, social environment, TV, etc that make everyone else sound the way they do.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: It's not their normal voice from what I experienced. I spent a week in a cabin with a flamboyant gay and when he got grumpy and angry at night he'd yell everything he said and his gay accent went away.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: [This answer](_URL_1_) from /u/shinkouhyou explains it pretty well.

 >  The "gay accent" or varies from person to person, but it's usually characterized by lisping, hypercorrection, and lilting, "feminine" pitch and vowel length. There are also vocabulary differences, so you can even think of it as a "gay dialect"... or, rather, a "gay sociolect," since it's not tied to a geographical area. Most speakers are able to "code switch" - in essence, they can turn it on and off. It's a marker of identity. Lots of cultural groups have sociolects that they use to show membership in a group - think of BEV (Black English Vernacular aka Ebonics), or "Valley Girl" speech, or the l337speak used online.

 > As far as history, some linguists say that the gay accent was influenced by the California accent, since California was the heart of the early gay rights movement in the US. But a "gay dialect" actually goes back a lot farther than that! The British dialect of Polari[1] might go back to the 16th century. Polari actually sounds a bit like what we'd call a "gay accent" today, and it has its roots in a combination of Roma argot, Cockney rhymbing slang, and exaggerated, singsong theatrical speech (think the old Punch and Judy puppet shows). Polari almost completely died out in the 1960s and 70s, though, as it started to be seen as a negative stereotype. But quite a lot of Polari words are still in use (such as "drag," which comes from the Romani word "indraka," or "skirt.")
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I'm gay and I've always wondered this too!


*in the straightest voice possible*
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I am gay and have a slightly higher voice than the average guy and have had a slight lisp since I learned to speak. I've actually had to train myself to get rid of it and speak with a lower pitch. I don't identify at all with the gay community and hate that I can be identified as such so quickly. So no, it's not a learned trait in every case. Although I agree that some gay men obviously don't speak in an effeminate way naturally.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I'm gay.  Was born gay.  Never had a choice.  I was born into an extremely religious and conservative family and for whatever reason, my voice is effeminate. I spent every night praying to god to make me normal and "fix" my voice. My voice betrayed me at every turn and my brothers used it as an excuse to whale on me every chance they got.  Believe me -- I wasn't training my voice to sound the way it does.  Even in the gay community this is looked down upon and masculinity and masculine sounding guys are the ideal.  
This trait is innate - just like your eye color.  Yes there are people who exaggerate and even highlight their feminine qualities but take it from me -- when you hear a guy with a voice that immediately betrays his sexuality, your first thought should be: "damn, I bet this guy had a rough childhood" not "Gee I wonder how he trained his voice to sound like such a flamer".
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I'm gayer than all sin and I don't sound gay. I think its a learned thing.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Culture culture culture. Think about how "gangstas" talk to each other, that's not a natural way to speak, it's learned as part of an identity they share with those closest to them. You'll probably find (though this is conjecture and I have absolutely no evidence for this) that these 'flamboyant' gay guys socialise with other gay men and that the way they talk is more of an 'in-group' thing than anything else. Other groups of gay men may forego the whole 'camp' thing altogether, and develop shared traits around a walk or a dance, or choice of drinks or music or sports. You can see what I mean in that regard by looking at sports players who, while they don't all speak the same way, engage in a shared boisterous, macho way of interacting.

Have a think about what kind of behaviours you've picked up because of the group(s) you're part of. It may not be obvious, but it's probably there. It's more noticable with "flamboyant gay men" and such because it's more overt (and presented in popular culture) than a bowl in your walk or a weird wave goodbye.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I know this will only get buried, but there was a documentary on this exact topic. The trailer alone will answer your question.

[**LINK:** Do I Sound Gay?](_URL_2_)
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: San Franciscan gay here. 

I feel like my voice used to be more macho or butch when I was younger (16-18) than it is now (23). I used to be extremely self-conscious and honestly terrified of people knowing that I was gay. I lived in a conservative small town, and knew that people like me weren't accepted. I wouldn't express myself, verbally or emotionally for fear of prosecution/bodily harm.

Upon moving to SF, I was able to let a lot of that go. I could finally be myself without being afraid. I could be dramatic and silly and say things like "guillllltttyyyy!" or "fabulous" and laugh it off and not worry about getting my ass kicked. It was liberating. 

I think most gay men who speak somewhat effeminately aren't trying to ACT gayer or let people instantly know that they're gay. They're just not worried about trying to hide their sexuality.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Okay, so as a straight guy who talks with a slightly feminine lisp, i can say it has a lot to do with hanging out with girls who simply talk like that all the time. Some people have been saying it's their way of trying to identify as gay, which makes sense too. But I spent about two years working at Forever 21. Nothing but female co-workers and female customers for two years. I started noticing that I was talking more like my co-workers and started getting a lisp or accent or whatever you want to call it.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I have a bit of an interesting perspective, as I'm a bisexual guy who has two groups of friends; straight and bi/gay friends.

I definetely have the accent, but it comes and goes depending on who I'm talking to. When talking to girls I'm not trying to pursue, I tend to use it, as it seems to help them relate to me. They always warm up and relax, I guess because in their mind "Hey this guy is gay, I know for sure he's not going to hit on me".

With other gay guys/flamboyant bi guys I tend to use it a lot too. However, when I'm interested in the guy, I tend to slip into the accent less, and lean more towards the standard masculine accent from my area (Ontario Canada).

With my straight friends I never use the accent. One thing to keep in mind is that I don't consciously choose to use the accent or not; it's an automatic thing that I tend to only be partially aware of.

I definitely believe the accent is something gay/bi people learn from "the community". I didn't really consider myself bisexual until my senior year of high school, and never had the accent whatsoever until then. It was only when I started associating with gay/bi guys that I picked it up.

Interestingly, I've never noticed a "lesbian accent" from any of the many lesbian women I've met and been friends with. They typically just sound like ordinary women, and when they're making the moves on another girl, they just use the same voice I typically hear hetero women using on men. I think the reason the accent has evolved this way is the need amongst gay men to signal homosexuality to other gay men in an indirect way. At least in North America, men typically feel more threatened by attraction from other men than women do from other women. The majority of women seem to either not be particularly offended by another woman being attracted to them (aside from awkwardness if the woman in question doesn't get that they're not interested), to actually being flattered by it. Much less men traditionally and still share this sentiment. It probably has to do with it culturally being considered emasculating for a man to be desired by another man, whereas that same concept seems to not exist in regards to women.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: [Nobody really seems to know](_URL_5_).

As a queer individual and someone who studies gender, orientation, and culture like crazy, if I were to venture a guess, it comes down to one or more of these things.

1. The listener's bias. If you know that someone has homosexual interests, you may be more aware of the stereotypes they fall under and cherry pick those against other behaviors (confirmation bias).

2. Selection bias. We often attribute feminine behavior and the gay lisp to homosexuality as a stereotype. However, unless you ask someone, you can't know their orientation. If you see a guy behaving effeminately, then you're more likely to assume that they are gay. However, in doing so, you confirm the stereotype whilst overlooking the many other gay people around you who don't behave in that way.

3. Backlash to gender policing. There is a lot of scrutiny on normative male gender roles. Homosexual interests and behavior has, historically, been considered to be effeminate behavior. Once you accept your orientation, you also realize that you are perpetually in violation of normative male gender roles. After that, Pandora's box is open as far as how you express yourself. The restraints are off. You'll note there is no gay lisp equivalent for women (at least as far as I know of).

4. Affirmation of queer identity. Same as #3, but focuses on accepting stereotypes and embellishing them as a social performance. That is to say, they're taking on a role based on stereotypes as an expression of their identity.

5. As #4, but takes [Pascoe's Fag Discourse](_URL_6_) into account. To sum that up, due to the scrutiny placed on male gender performance (gender policing), boys/men often act out with effeminate and stereotypical "gay" behavior as a joke and then quickly return to their standard behavior showing they aren't really that way. It creates what Pascoe called the "specter of the fag"; the distorted embodiment of all behavior and identity that men can/will be shamed for.

6. A cue to queer society. In heteronormative society (where straight is considered normal and, unless you indicate otherwise, you are assumed to be straight by default), the gay lisp can function as a kind of code similar to the [handkerchief code](_URL_6_). By embracing the stereotype, you indicate to others your queer identity without having to explain yourself to everyone you meet, which can be both tedious and awkward.

7. Aftermath of childhood gender nonconformity. A [few studies](_URL_4_) linked gender nonconformity during childhood years and homosexual orientation. While that's hardly a cause for the lisp, it can be adopted as part of the child's nonconformist behavior and carry on into adulthood.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Gay man here. First, I need to state that I don't know the 100% scientifically accurate answer to this, but I will say this. For the most part, I speak without a lisp and in a low monotone voice. But... When I'm hanging with a group of (girl)friends, the "gay voice" suddenly creeps up on me (usually when I'm being sassy with them). This never happens when I'm just casually talking with both girls and boys but usually only when I feel kind of like a girl. I guess that in those situations I identify (even if I'm not aware of it) as a girl. Not sure if this answered anything but it's what happens to me. edit: Also, since there seems to be a lot of people saying that the gay voice is used to solidify a gay person's identity. I just wanted to say that the more I think about it, it makes sense.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: it's not learned.  for me, it hit me between the 6th and 7th grade, along with the other items in the gay gift basket: confusion over why anyone would watch baseball, a desire to keep these loafers scuff-free, and an uncontrollable desire to recreate your parents house (Mom. Mom. Orange shag? No. Just no.)

truly the accent just seemed to appear one day and i did NOT want it.  i was scared to death that someone would find out my horrible secret (this is the late 70's) so i worked hard to suppress it, along with  my personality and the very essence of my being.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: It's conditioned, not strictly conscious, so you're partly right (maybe mostly right). But we *all* do this, don't kid yourself. We all adopt the habits of our predominant social groups, whether we're aware of it or not.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: uh, this is my first post on reddit but here goes:
let me first explain that i'm a rising 2nd year @ UCLA and I'm majoring in Linguistics  &  English, but I am by no means a linguist (or a cunning linguist at that) and am gay myself.

I think what first needs to be explained is accents themselves: 
You get your accent from when/where you learn to speak, among other factors. For example, a French person might say "zis" instead of "this" because French does not have a "th" ([Voiced dental fricative](_URL_7_) in case you were wondering) sound in the language.
Now continuing on that idea, an American couple, for example, can raise their child to have a British accent if they simply speak in a British accent to their child whilst raising him/her. This is because we learn our speech from (to put it simply) our parents/guardians when we are growing up.

Now, I watched a (trailer for a) documentary about the gay "accent," and a lot made sense to me from what I've learned so far, so for the rest of my explanation, I'm taking the info from that trailer and supplanting it with my (brief) knowledge of linguistics. What I recall is that gay men grow up listening more/paying more attention to the way women speak rather than men, and in doing so, develop an "accent" which is more of just how a woman talks, rather than a "gay" accent.

i.e. it only sounds gay because it's a man, whereas if it were a woman saying it exactly the same, she would just sound like a woman.

Like /u/wsferbny said (how do you link to someone on reddit?) 
 > the "gay accent" is actually more indicative of gender non-normativity than sexuality

Speaking on my own experiences, I personally don't think I sound that gay, but some friends think I do. I know I did not purposely choose to sound so, but I think it's a combination of what I said earlier, as well as how comfortable I am around the person, how I feel that day, how excited I am about a particular subject, etc. etc. (i.e. loads of things)

edited: added the /u/ thing i just learned B)
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Gay here. 

Growing up I always had a more effeminate voice. Don't know how to describe it. Got called gay all the time growing up cause of it, so I guess it didn't surprise me. 

After puberty shit got weird. My voice became a bellowing low register, but I still had that "gay" twinge in my voice. Hormones a-blazin (flaming?), discovered I liked dudes. Made it a lot easier to be identified as gay so I count it as a plus. 

I'd say a little of it was learned. I have noticed that as I've aged I've gotten a bit "gayer" in my voice, and I think it's linked to a societal thing really. My friends give me shit for it all the time but I don't care, makes me that much more fabulous.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I wish I could find the source, but I'm on my phone.  I read once (and I identify with this explanation a lot since I'm gay and have been called gay before I even knew it) that it is due to being friends with my girls than guys as a child.  And since I was like that, I identify with that.

Thing is I don't have a higher pitched gay voice.  My voice is incredibly deep, I sing Bass 2/3 in my college's male choir, it just kind of has a 'gay inflection' to it now.  I actively try, when interviewing or giving a speech, to 'flatten out' my voice and try not to sound too gay, but when I'm comfortable/drunk/emotional it gets pretty campy.  Eh.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Sometimes my voice will sound gay and sometimes it doesn't and can be very deep. There is no decision on my part about how I speak, I just talk and that's what comes out. Subconscious mimicry is my personal take on why I talk like that. I do not train myself to speak with the gay accent, that's just silly.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: As a non-gender discriminatory individual myself, I've always found it unattractive. 

To each his or her own though, the guys I've dated are lacking in this trait completely, it's curious that some adopt it while others don't.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Male monozygotic (identical/single egg) twin here. My twin brother and I are the same height, weight, shoe size, and we share the same contact lens prescription. He is hetero and I am gay. We grew up in the same household and without any traumatic events, so should be a pretty good case study. We're both turning 29 this year.

The affect/dialect, along with the mannerisms, are both a nature and nurture development:
-visual gender role modelling is a critical factor, if not the "trigger" factor
-a chemical or biological change occurs pre-10 that strengthens/supplements the initial gender role modelling
-there is most definitely a biological point of no return sometime pre-puberty

This would account for the difference in the pitch of my brother and my voice despite our diaphragms, chests, ribs, etc sharing the same measurements. 
Notes: 
-My brother role modeled our father, I did not
-Neither of us exhibits a gay dialect, as this as unlearned/compensated for at a young age on my part, but I definitely noticed the beginnings of both a gay affect and manner in myself at around 13 

A developed gay man does not adopt the affect or mannerisms for social reasons. Pre-10 gay male children are a great example of this, as they frequently exhibit the affect and mannerisms before learning social awareness.

But maybe the most important argument I can make here is that if you're a gay male who speaks and acts outwardly like a hetero male, a conscious effort is being made to reduce the manner/dialect. You can imagine it like drinking too much caffeine. That feeling of being "wired" is similar to the lack of control a gay male has over their affect or mannerisms. Any corrective behaviour is usually learned through visual role modelling of masculine figures, which is why it's not uncommon to see a gay male overcorrecting with hypermasculine voice and body language. After dating many gay men from both the Vancouver and Seattle areas, I can tell you that not one of them was without a slight gay affect in their most relaxed environment, and most of them claim initially to be straight acting - the only difference is self awareness.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Gay mannerisms and speech patterns are learned? Perhaps the specifics of idiom or cultural allusions but the general feminine lisp of more flamboyant gay men is definitely not consciously learned or even adopted in a conscious way, exaggerated maybe but the basic pattern is almost entirely unconscious and clearly more innate than anything else. The idea that it is a consciously adopted style in order to identify with the gay community simply does not reflect the actual experience of anyone I know gay or straight. Ultimately the best response to this nonsense is to simply ask why anyone would choose to speak or act in such a way that carried such negative consequences even today for most people? In small town Texas where I grew up in the 50's and 60's being gay meant being abused and bullied constantly as a student and then meant complete ostracism from friends and family not to mention being jailed for criminal activity and occasionally subjected to involuntary electroshock therapy at the state mental hospital for repeat offenders. There was definitely no gay community to identify with yet a couple of my class mates were easily identifiable despite their best efforts by their "gay" lisp and speech patterns and mannerisms. Where could they have possibly learned them in the first place and with so much negative consequence as a result of it why would they have continued doing it. I knew these guys from the age of about 5 or 6 and even then they were labeled as sissies for their speech and behavior. The idea that this is largely learned or conscious in nature is patent politically correct nonsense. It is like saying transgender people learn how to be the other sex instead of knowing innately that their actual sexuality doesn't match their anatomy.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: There's a lot of dumb shit in this thread.

The 'gay voice' does exist, and it's not an act or a persona or whatever. The 'learned' part comes from the fact that many of us (I had it fairly bad when I was young) got speech therapy and such to 'fix' it. It doesn't mean we learn how to use it, it means chances are if someone still has it by the time they're an adult they've chosen to not get therapy for it, which is completely fine and valid.

It's very much a natural thing, not some affectation.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: [Dan Savage](_URL_8_) said in one of his podcasts that the reason some (not all) gay men seem to suddenly affect a gay voice soon after coming out is because that's actually their natural way of speaking, which they've concealed for most of their lives, and which they now finally feel free to use.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I've wondered about this, too. I wonder if it's a partly cultural thing, or if it might be influenced by hormones? Have there been any legitimate studies of this?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Elementary teaching assistant here. We had a young boy in grade 2 who was quite obviously gay. I promise I'm not making this up. Always played with girls at recess, showed a lot of interest in decorating and colouring things super neatly and he would do a dance-walk whenever he moved around the class. A kind of ballet. I know the decorating thing doesn't make him gay but it is stereotypical so I thought I'd mention it. 

But the voice thing. He had that gay pitch and lisp. It was super obvious. My guess is that feeling feminine and non-agressive (less testosterone?) brings that out in people? As gay guys get older they will also learn to tweak these mannerisms to make them feel more gay/attractive/whatever. Same way that I do things or act in a certain way to feel like more of a man. And straight women, if it's their style, might do things to seem more girly. 

Anyways, the lisp is there early on for some. They're not born with the pitch and lisp but I do believe they are born feeling less testosteroney which might then lead to that. Trust me, I'm a doctor.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I was young when I was first sent to the training camps. The speech therapy, punctuated by the sound of electric shock when one would accidently switch back to the "Breeder Tongue," was the most memorable torment, penetrating my nightmares for years to come. They trained us well, by the time I left I could communicate with 16 year old girls from the san fernando valley, as well as our own kind, with ease. The revolution was coming, and my comrades and I trained well. Someday, all the breeders will see what else they taught us. IN THE CAMPS.

I'm sorry, I mean no it just kind of happens lol don't know how. Stop asking questions.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I am gay myself and can't stand the stereotypical voice surrounding it.

I have plenty of mates whose voices haven't changed at all after coming out, finding themselves etc, I just don't get it.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I have a very gay voice, and have had since before I even thought about my sexuality. I also really dislike my voice, but I guess a lot of people have that.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: you've never met a kid like that? growing up, i met at least 3 guys who were like that already. that's just how they are born.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I've concluded that voices are primarily culture determined. I have heard Japanese women speaking in baby voices while hearing the old "Valspeak" from southern California girls. You know, that strange buzzing, rattling voice. Don't people listen to themselves?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Why do you sound the way you sound?  Your voice is likely so distinctive that people who know you can recogize it without seeing you, did you train yourself to sound like that?

Likely the same reason.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: For every flamboyant gay person, there are 2 dozen flamboyant straight people.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: *I'll speak to this as someone who has two moms and found themselves raised in a medium sized gay community from a city in the southern United States.*

The gay 'accent' is not something you're born with, it's more like something you develop over time that identifies you as you. It's just like any accent. There was a really neat post about linguistics someone posted earlier that I'd refer you to for more of a scientific reason for why this happens, but I'll tell you what one of my mom's told me when I asked her why one of our family friends who was a bit like an 'uncle' to me, was different from some of the other men in our life. She had an interesting explanation.

She told me that gays in the south have always had a hard time staying 'hidden' but acting like a 100% heterosexual was just not going to happen - and why should it? So, a sort of code developed over time that let gay men 'signal' they were gay to other 'suspected' gay men. Because going up to a random heterosexual man in the deep south and asking, "Hey, you're attractive and I'd like to spend some more time with you," is generally seen as socially inappropriate and not the subject of country music songs, the development of this code was a bit of a necessity. 

MOM THIS IS CRAZY THERE IS NO ONE DEVELOPING CODES IN SOME SECRET GAY BUNKER COME ON!

Well, no, there isn't, but we take social codes all the time or social 'queues' as we commonly call them. While there is no gay form of "Cotillion" there are certain things you pick up - chief among them is verbal language and body language. Again, this all goes back to risking that 'embarrassing moment' where you as a gay man have put everything on the line to try and have a romantic relationship with another man who you *think* might be gay but are not absolutely sure. So, she explained that some men developed more feminine ways of talking to one another or saying certain things certain ways in order to clue someone in on the what's going on. 

As a gay man in a larger community that really doesn't approve of your lifestyle there aren't many alternatives to figuring out who is who and what is what that can go down in a way that doesn't reveal your true identity. So you can either be a mouse and stay quiet or you can put it out there and be noticed.

If you take the mouse-route, you still have to take risks. Before you go on and make all kinds of assumptions and innuendo about what is happening let me tell you it's probably something very benign like **subtle** references to gay pop-culture or male attractiveness. Now, a problem with this is that you have to be talking to someone who is smart enough to pick up on the references, which can be a really big risk in outing you at the same time. So, the enters the speech style and more feminine rhythm and stereotype you hear today. It's just way easier to hit on someone who is showing you flamboyant signals than someone who is playing it 'straight.' Life is short, love is in the air, why waste it right? So, she concluded, some gay men speak more flamboyantly or more 'feminine-like' because they have developed this sort of 'gay accent' as part of a code to help gay men recognize who other gay men are.

I think one thing that is interesting now about today's generation of LBGT is that with the more rapid acceptance of LBGT there is less of a need for this type of speech pattern. I'd be curious to know if people are consciously making an effort to emulate it, especially younger people, or, if they feel it is more natural. I certainly to feel some people are emulating but if they are happy and feel accepted - more power to them. Keep on keeping on.

 I hope I answered some of your question. I know I rambled on a bit.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: As a gay guy, I will say that when I initially came out there was this urge to fit in to the gay community due to already feeling isolated from the straight community in high school. I never had a full-blown flamboyant speech pattern however, I did feel my tone and the way I would emphasize my sentences change slightly to feel more "accepted". It's almost like moving to another country that speaks the same language but has a different accent. Over time you just find yourself slightly changing your speech style so that you feel at home in your community and aren't looked at like a visitor.

Now, for older gay guys who are out of high school and college who are very flamboyant in their mannerisms and speech, I feel like those people are most just innately that way, it's not just a "fit in" type of thing. Because after school I just grew out of that phase of caring what other people think or who's box I fit into. I think most people grow out of that phase eventually and this scenario is no different.

Lastly, I'd just like to stress to everyone out there to try to give these people a break. Seriously! It's already hard enough to be gay and made fun of for that alone, let alone being made fun of for other traits on top of it. And not to mention the fact that there is internal community discrimination on top of it. You think feminine gay guys only get made fun of by straight guys? Nope. A lot of the masculine gay guys also make fun of the feminine gay guys as well which is very when it's coming from people who are supposed to be in their same support group.

We've come a long way in acceptance of gay people as a whole but there are definitely still some hurdles to clear, and that includes Americans getting over this huge misunderstanding and misconception about transgendered people. It's honestly really sad how people who don't truly understand what a transgendered person goes through just laugh and treat their genuinely difficult life like some complete joke. It's a very serious thing that they go through and I wish people would take the time to understand it.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I can't speak to research, but I can say that I grew up very closely with my cousin from birth, and he has had a traditionally "flamboyant" high pitched voice since he started talking. He was also born into an incredibly masculine, critical family who rejected his stereotypically feminine traits and desires until he was like, 21 and officially out of the closet. It was really hard to see. But I knew from a toddler that he loved to put on makeup and wear high heals just like us girls, we just had to play when no adults were watching. He still talks the same, just seams more comfortable being himself. I imagine it is as much learned as any feminine characteristic. But he has always had a higher pitched voice as well. I always wondered if that has to do with maybe more or less testosterone/estrogen.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I didn't get you wrong. And although some of the responses are OK, they seem to forget you are just five years old.

The answer is; of course it is learned. An accent is completely learned. This is true by definition, as accents normally are what we pick out, on the way people speak, where people are from! It is expected for an accent to vanish and a new one reappear several times in one life.

But that's no different from straight men. Our "straight accents" are a decidedly learned way of talking that contributes to a larger *image* that we try to show the world, of who we are, what we want, and a million other things.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I read an article in Psychology Today (I believe it was) and it strongly suggested that the voice is absolutely a learned trait. It probably has something to do with identifying each other more easily and gives off a artsy tone of voice- although I can't remember if that is what the article suggested. THAT SAID, I believe the article also suggest women force a more feminine voice than they naturally have also as do men do their own thing with the voice too. The deeper you dig into the human being, the more you realized what an unbelievably brainwashed and fucked up animal it is. Consciousness and rationality should have never happened [and Cole said it well](_URL_9_)
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: So how does this explain gay men who are insecure about their sexual identity, yet still have the high voice? For example, my whole family knows my uncle is gay because he has "the voice", is feminine, has never had a girlfriend, and came out to select members of his friend group whom I've met. He's very private about it though and seemingly ashamed. Never talks about it, never brings his boyfriend to family things. My grandparents still don't technically know. So why doesn't he "shut off" his voice around family? If it truly is a something you can control?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: True story; guy named Joel pledged our house my senior year. Was just a normal dude until the day he became a brother. He came out, not a big deal, not sure why he hid it as we already had an openly gay brother, but Joel came out big time. 

His voice changed overnight.

The make up and blouses and all the other flamboyant things we could all deal with, but there was something very unsettling about *that* "VaUhOiceeee".

Extra emphasis on the Ss. "Ssilly Ssailor".

Fuck you Joel, I still love you, you flamboyant son-of-a-bitch.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I can't be sure of course but I do have a theory about this.  Growing up the gay people we see in public we know are gay because they follow a certain stereotype. That doesn't mean all gay guys are like this these are just the ones we notice are gay. So when young gay men are trying to figure out where they "fit in" they just have the stereotypical people to look up to when it comes to media etc.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I'm neither gay nor a man.  I've met two kinds of "flaming" gay guys:  men who were "expressive" from the time they were very little and everyone predicted they would be gay and men who seemed androgynous or even straight but who would become more dramatic if they felt safe and accepted in a particular setting.  

And then, as acknowledged, there are all the gay guys who aren't feminine, but rather macho, or something in between.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: The other day I met a man who had the most "flamboyantly gay" voice I had ever heard. It was actually rather jarring even though I have several friends with such voices, just because of how, well, gay-sounding it was and because his appearance didn't suggest his voice at all (he was about 6'2, burly and bearded).

He then talked about his wife and children for several minutes, so I was surprised once again.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: So here's just my personal life experience.  

Two individuals in high school.  Who attended the same college I did, both came out and their voice magically changed.  

Also a guy a new from my freshman year who everyone knew was gay, but he denied it came out and some how his voice magically changed.   

I have no idea, but it's not what they were born with
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I see a lot of people saying it's learned...and I know this comment is going to get buried so I won't get an answer. But I know that women, when speaking to men they are attracted to talk differently than they normally do. (Higher pitched, softer tone) and obviously this is pleasing to the male ear. Could gays be doing the same thing to attract men?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Many of them have it as a learned trait, many of them don't.  In some cases, they already have flamboyant voice tendencies or hang out with women and strengthen these tendencies.

It's both.  However, the majority of gay people do not have the voice.

Source: am gay (I don't have the flamboyant voice)
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Idk I have three nieces, 18, 17, and 14.  My 17 yo's best friend is a guy, also 17. He has that "voice" and lisp too but just recently we found old videos when they were all younger and he had it then too. It's like it comes natural.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Just like lesbians have butch and feminine types, gays have masculine gays that sound like normal guys and those that are feminine.  It's the ones that have that feminine trait that have that style of voice.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I think they play up stereotypically gay/sissy behavior to publicly demonstrate their gayness.  Kind of like guys who behave in very exaggerated macho ways.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: They definitely train themselves to do it, I've heard doctors who say their accents fade completely once they start going under anesthesia.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Michael Jackson wasn't gay and he totally loved women. I heard his real voice was a baritone.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: The same reason guys/girls try to act cool/dress differently/flex/wear makeup: to impress or attract mates.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: consider it is also broadcasting an availability of sorts
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I think both "nature" and "nurture" are involved, although usually it's a false dichotomy. Many gay and bisexual men certainly develop, whether consciously or not, a "gay voice" as an identifier, a fun way to "camp out" with friends and in relationships, and so forth.

But I think it's also important to keep in mind some of the examples other people have mentioned, namely those cases where a young boy develops certain mannerisms like the "gay voice" with little to no exposure to gay people or gay culture. (This lack of exposure is hopefully getting harder to come by with the advance of LGBT rights, but it's still possible.)

What's confusing to some of the friends of gay men who naturally have a "gay-sounding" or more feminine voice is that often those friends have only ever heard them speak in a "straight voice"--lower pitch, not overtly expressive, etc, and their doing so is part of their being in the closet. So after they come out and are accepted by their friends (in the best scenario), they feel free to use their *actual* voice, rather than the affected "straight guy voice."

But to their friends, it seems to be the reverse: The sudden appearance of the "gay voice" seems to be an affectation, and they wonder why their friend suddenly lost his "normal" voice.

Source: [Dan Savage](_URL_10_) (I'm also a bi guy, but I tend to sound and act masculine.)
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I think there is definitely a flamboyant affectation that many gay men use to identify themselves, and simply because they spend a lot of time hearing other gay men talk the same way - it's the same as spending a few years in Tennessee and coming back with a slight drawl.

What's important to note, though, is that there is also a 'straight accent.' Some men do this to a greater degree than others, artificially lowering their voices, etc. Picture an old biker dude or Todd from *Scrubs.* the female equivalent would be when girls use the "valley girl" accent, saying "like" too much and making their voices high and nasal. These aren't natural voices either, they're learned. Many of us don't like to think we sound this cartoonish, and most people don't, but there are definitely gender specific speech patterns that we subconsciously pick up over time. We learn that girls talk like this, and boys talk like that. That "gay voice" you're hearing is probably partly learned from other gay role models and peers, sometimes exaggerated as a tool of personal identity, but much of it is just dropping the slight "macho" accent that straight guys train themselves into.

At least, that's my theory.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Let me tell you something as a ex-flamboyant person it is trained. then it becomes normal, I was like it from 14-16 and I quickly snapped out of it and I grew up living in London being around people you dont really wana be a camp person.      
       
 I got with somebody at 14, He was the complete oposite you know he wore the trousers in the relationship etc etc. I never had a proper-man figure in my life. So I looked up to him a lot and he made me the person I am today. Which I was trained to be once I was 16, Now I'm 20 this is completly normal to me.       
i've had bad things happen to me too so I think that kinda *"Hardened"* me up.      
In which I mean not looking weak or insecure etc.      
     
Hope this explains things to you because it is something I have kept very quiet about (me being camp when I was abit young  &  dumb etc).       
It hasnt change who I am though. I am still a vegetarian and I still love baking cakes for my bro's ;p.     
Edit: Bit of formatting  &  spelt a lot the dumb way
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: There are many theories about where the "accent" originated from and how it is acquired. To my understanding, and what I find is the most feasible, is that gay men develop this tone by being exposed to gay culture along with a bevy of slang, behaviors, attitudes and is used as a way to feel part of the community.

Consider the way that many people interact with black people. They especially men often lower their voice, use slang and try to maintain an "urban swagger" to seem more relatable. I've also read several studies about people being able to identify someone from across a crowded room by, more or less, subconsciously detecting their accent. This is especially true for people that move to other countries. So like these two examples, the gay accent is something that is used to act as a marker confirming their homosexuality and calls on potential gay friends, lovers, and fruit-flies(they love that sweet sound). 

But then you also have to question where this behavior is picked up when you have a very young boy who is decidedly flamboyant but has few gay men to introduce them to this behavior. 

source: I'm a gay black man.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Okay so when I was entering my teenage years my brother used to make fun of me from time to time when I'd pronounce a word in a girly manner. If he hadn't pointed that out I probably wouldn't have even noticed it. Then later on as I grew up I found myself fighting against that way of speaking in order to "fit in" or not to be called out but I myself noticed how I pronounced some.. sentences or words with more femininity than "regular" guys. And now that I'm 21 I've come to a conclusion that you can feel the femininity in every gay guy... It almost comes natural to us to talk girly/flamboyantly and it all comes down to how much one decides to fight himself and against themselves. I've met a bunch of gay guys and every single one, no matter how little, had a bit of that "flamboyance" in himself. So in the end if you grow up gay without restrictions, accepted by your loved ones and by yourself from the start you're most likely going to sound "more gay".
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Perhaps this not an answer to the question, but I just had a conversation with a coworker regarding this exact issue yesterday. Often times people will tell me "Well, you SOUND straight, I didn't even know you were gay until you mentioned it" and then smile as though that's the nicest thing you could tell someone.  At a (younger) point in my life I actually accepted it as a compliment, but I really began to ponder why it was so important to me to hear that.  What was so wrong with people perceiving me as gay?  I AM gay. I made no concerted effort to teach myself to speak any specific way, to fit into any specific group. The prejudices against archetypal flamboyant gay speech patterns inside and outside the gay community only serve to further the internalized homophobia many of us experience as a sort of PTSD from growing up in a society that, until recently, publicly rejected us. The next time you want to assure a gay friend that they don't SEEM gay, consider whether or not you want to promote such ignorance.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: My personal theory is that they adopt this trait as a signaling mechanism for the fact that they are gay. 

If you think about it, women use signaling mechanisms: high heels, cleavage, tight clothing, cosmetics etc. Birds do it too: colorful plumage etc. Insects also: they release pheromones. My point is that all animals do this, including humans. 

But the thing about being a gay male is there isn't necessarily anything inherently obvious about his being gay. You could argue that he might dress or behave a certain way but it's not overtly obvious, at least not in the same way that a straight person might catch a split-second glimpse of a person of the other sex and find her/him attractive. I think that most people would not be confident in identifying a male as gay/straight based on a momentary look at him.

Gay men have to compensate for this disadvantage and thus incorporate learned traits such as a manner of speech. That way, if somebody were to talk to him, he can provide an implicit, if not explicit sign that he is indeed gay.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: A gay guy I knew at University wondered the same thing (as he did not have the lisp) and did his doctorate on this. His conclusion was that the bigger the trauma of coming out, the more likely you'd subconciously adopt gay signifiers like the lisp - his theory being that gay people who feel a trauma surrounding their coming out try to avoid "coming-out" situations in later life, by signalling their sexuality to their surroundings in advance. 

Some interesting findings were that the trauma didn't correllate with the acceptance of the family or friends of the person coming out, but with his (we're talking males here) expectations and fear of coming out before doing so. So the deciding factor was how hard it was for the person to take the final step to come out, not how society reacted.

Take all this with a pinch of salt, of course, this was one doctorate based on a bunch of interviews in Northern England, not the final word or anything. But it was interesting.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Oh while this doesn't answer your question I have a funny story. Back when I was in the Navy gays were not allowed to serve, you know (DADT). Everyone knew who was gay, it was just no one gave a fuck. Any way we had 2 gay guys I'll call one Camacho and one Williams. Camacho was gay but he didn't act flamboyant mean while Williams made up for Camacho's lack of flamboyance 10 times over. So we were in Thailand waiting for a bus to drop us off and Williams was acting like super stereotype gay and I guess Camacho had enough of it and yell at him and said "You act like such a faggot you make me look straight so just fucking stop". The whole bus just started laughing. It was one of my favorite all time moments in the Navy. A gay guy telling another gay guy to stop acting so flamboyant because it was embarrassing for him.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: From the [Wikipedia page](_URL_11_), which also cites a lot of other interesting studies done on this topic, some of which I read a while ago.

 >  Peter Renn's undergraduate study (which won a George H. Mitchell Undergraduate Award) demonstrated that gay-stereotyped speech more strongly correlates with childhood gender-nonconformity than with sexual orientation and proposed that gay-stereotyped speech is actually childhood-gender-nonconformity speech that has become associated with male homosexuality only by proxy.

In other words, while some people believe it is acquired, many studies believe that the lisp is directly related to hormones and genes. So, some males are born with the unknown genetic/hormonal factors contributing to "the gay lisp" and as a result of the same unknown genetic/hormonal factors they do not conform to society's gender norms. Mix this with people's confusion of "homosexuality" with other types of gender difference like transgender people or asexuals, and you've got people falsely equating the lisp with gay men.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Straight male here. I can "do" a "gay voice" perfectly. Even with accents. Yes, french gay. Yes, russian gay (THAT one is the killer!). Yes, german gay. 

It's just fun to change your voice and I'm sure it is sort of like all other "talents", some can do it better, easier and faster than others. Others need to "train" a bit - and some are "(un)fortunate" and have to train a lot or just miss out on it.

It's not like all gays talk like that, or even have the ability to do so. It sort of became a "trademark" thing, I guess? A lot of the ones that do this voice (in public) probably only do it because it's part of their "gay persona"? I'm sure there are plenty of gay guys who do it subconciously, too.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: There's a lot of research saying it's a combination of factors, but they tend to lean towards learned behavior.

That puts me in a weird place. I'm a gay guy, and while I don't sound extremely flamboyant, there's definitely a lilting quality, and I modify some of my vowels oddly. I don't know how I picked this up, though I suspect it must've been on a deeply unconscious level as I came to terms with my sexuality.

I can't turn it off. I've tried. It fucking pisses me off (it doesn't jive with my perception of myself, and makes certain aspects of my career difficult), and I haven't found a way to fix it. I suppose I'll need to go to speech therapy or something.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: It's probably cultural, just like how the black community has it's own accent and cadences(which white people who grow up in black communities also have just like black people who grew up in white communities don't have it), the gay community adopted its own in an attempt to form a cultural identity. The preconception is that homosexual males tend to be more effeminate than their straight counterparts (whether or not this is actually true) so it just kind of became expected. What I want to know is what came first, the stereotype or the cadence?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Have you ever met people who act like thugs? Guys you might have gone to school with as kids who had unremarkable accents and now that they are grown they speak like they are from Trinidad?
I've met folks who spoke with a particular vernacular that changed with their inflection from the pub to the classroom.

I wouldn't say this is in every case, some people just sound the way they do, other folks seem to take on people in their social strata. Your personality defines the way you speak to some extent.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I've often wondered about this. I'm a gay 26 year old guy who generally does not have that "gay voice". Some things I say can give it away, but generally I sound like any other straight guy. At least this is what people tell me. Been at the same job for over 4 years and some people there still don't know. I don't bring it up because it's none of their business, but a good number of those who do seemed surprised when they found out.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I am gay. I would describe myself and my husband both as "straight acting". We both find the stereotypical gay types with the high feminine voices irritating. But sometimes I think its a little hypocritical because whenever I greet him on the phone or after work sometimes I notice that my voice gets a little higher when I'm with him. At work or anywhere else my voice falls to "normal" range. But when he's around my voice gets softer and higher.... I don't know why.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I'm straight and people including my family keep thinking that I'm gay because of my voice. I'm NOT gay and I DONT choose how I sound, I really wish people smartened the fuck up and learned not to judge people based off these sort of things. I always still feel like I have to somehow prove myself to my friends and family. 

It's not nice to assume someone is gay based off of how they sound. If you do this then you're a dick.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: My cousin is gay and doesn't have the lisp, but I've hung out with him and his friends, and he seems to be one of the few people in his friend group who doesn't have the lisp. He also isn't obviously gay in any way. He doesn't purposefully hide it, he really isn't imbarrassed or anything. This is why I've thought that it is a thing that people put on either to stick out from most people, or to blend into their group.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: As a gay man, I would say that my accent was profoundly affected by my close relationship and desire to mimic the women who raised me (mother, grandmothers, aunts).  I valued their input the most, and inherited their phonology and inflection.  Interesting, this is only in English.  In French, I sound like a "perfectly straight man" (and have been told so).  I've always attributed my accent to the people I valued most when learning the languages.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Grew up a surfer, with brothers who were surfers. I sometimes feel like they talk weird too. I never affected the surfer lingo (my brother is a dead ringer for Crush from Finding Nemo) and I feel like its the same thing. there is a subculture in all things, and they have a specific tonal adjustment to the language that indicates to others what you're into (in a genetic/primal/group animal kind of way...) maybe...
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I'm gay and I don't usually talk in a feminine way unless I'm talking to my female friends. (Even then I don't think it's overly flamboyant though...) For me, at least, it's a learned thing that I learned from being friends with a lot of girls. I also subconsciously turn it on and off depending on who I'm talking to. I suppose it helps me merge in with different groups of people easier.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Maybe it's similar to how male to female trangender people wear dresses. Transgender people feel they"are in the wrong body" so to speak and feel more comfortable as the opposite sex. well there isn't a "sex" trait for wearing a dress, or make up or the like. These are social conventions. As such feeling more womanly in them is purely psychological. Maybe this is similar to the voice thing.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: It's just part of the culture. I have a friend who moved to North Dakota-we live in Indiana- and he came back after a few years with a thick, thick  country accent. It's a little different for the gay community, though. That's part of the identity and they slowly pick it up and it eventually becomes part of them. Sort of relevant: [I love this] (_URL_12_)
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I know my voice has never been very deep but the older I got and more accepting of myself as being gay I definitely have a habit of using a stereotypical gay accent.

The worst part is I can't make myself un-use it now :/
But i play around and make voices all the time so I guess it fits...right?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I read a study that dealt with this exact question.  The study was about the effects on gay men right after waking up from anesthesia. It seems that once they woke up they would talk without the accent until the anesthesia wore off all the way.  I do believe it is a trait used to help them identify oneself.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I've wondered if some things are hormonal. Like the hairline, not all gay men obviously but a lot of gay male lose their hair and/or have a receding hairline and it seems to usually have the same shape. Hairloss is usually tied to excess testosterone and you would think a higher voice would be excess estrogen so who knows.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I'm almost entirely sure this topic was discussed recently, and a linguist with relevant interests chimed in, noting a comparative analysis had been conducted on the vocal tones of homosexual and heterosexual males, and it found the homosexual males in the sample population had deeper voices on average than their heterosexual counterparts.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: According to David Sedaris, having to go to speech therapy is a gay identifier.  

Of course, he was being ridiculous, totally his right as a comedic creative nonfiction writer.  But it's interesting that society links lisping with being a gay guy.  Why lisping?  Why not...stuttering or any other speech struggle?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I'm very late to this party. But, food for thought;  I was an elementary school teacher for 6 years. During that time I noticed many boys talking with days accent. They turned out to be quite gay later on. 

Take from that what you will.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Most people are saying it's a social thing, but I dunno... I know a guy who is gay but also celibate for religious reasons. Basically the only thing about him that even suggests that he likes other dudes is his voice.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: As a person not living in the US, it's worth noting that the "gay accent" is very rare among gays where i live (Sweden). It seems to be a cultural trait among american gay men.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Heard about this gay man who talked really feminine all the time, but not in his sleep. 

You can learn things to your muscle memory, and it will become part of you pretty fast.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I always thought it was like a mating call to other gays.
I've heard straight friends deepen their voice when chatting with women (unsure of them being aware of doing it or not).
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I speak quite camply and am sometimes confused for a gay guy although I'm straight. It's really just the way I speak. It's not the stereotypical gay guy voice, but not for off.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: grew up in a co-op, there was a guy that watched us most of our life growing up. He had the voice since I could remember, I think it depends on the person.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: This is why identities are stupid.   We have to create them to get out of childhood, but then we realize we have to destroy them to be free.  

Good luck with that.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Its all an act. I have two gay cousins and they dont talk like that...not around me anyway. They probably do talk like that though. Straight people should use pirate voices.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: It seems like a learned trait just like how any of us talk.  It makes it easier to identify a gay man as well.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I don't know, but that accent has been a thing in at least 3 languages I know of way before the internet came around...
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I believe it's a feminine accent.

If you listen to women and men talking, they definitely speak with different emphasis on certain sounds.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: It's an act for the most part. Fairly silly though, as a lot of gay guys (like me) find it *very* unattractive.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I read a post here once that their accent goes away when they are just coming to from anasthesia.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: You just don't assume they are gay if their voice is what you consider normal.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I've always wondered how come some straight people have that feminine accent, can anyone explain?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: How about men who have somewhat effeminate voices and mannerisms that are totally straight?
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: I thought the voice came from their need to be feminine.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Because you're not actually gay unless everyone knows it.
question: how do most flamboyant gay guys sound so different then straight guys? Do they train themselves to sound like that? answer: Sexuality doesn't determine your accent. Come on reddit...
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: by making it an adapter that has a micro usb connection
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: From what I read months ago about this issue, the rule has a loophole that says that it is acceptable as long as an adapter to micro-USB is included in the box. The speculation was that Apple would simply include the adapter with European iPhones.

Since then, more interesting developments have occurred. The USB group is promoting a new connecter standard called "USB C" that, like Apple's proprietary Lightning cable, is reversible. *Further*, while Lightning cable is not thought to be able to support full USB 3 transfer speeds (5Gbps) to to a deficiency of pins, the USB C connector standard supports USB 3.1 (10Gbps) *and* a new USB-based standard for carrying power that allowed USB C to carry up to *100 watts*. To put 100 watts in perspective, Apple currently produces 3 different power supply adapters for their laptops: 45 watt for MacBook Airs, 60 watt for 13" Macbook Pros, and 85 watt for 15" MacBook Pros. That means that 100 watts is easily enough to power and charge Apple's most powerful laptops.

**Most interestingly**, rumors abound about a new ultra thin and portable Mac laptop that is so thin that it eschews all connectors besides a single headphone port and a single USB C port. As in, you will be using that USB C plug as the primary means of charging the laptop. So if you need to charge your laptop and plug in to USB devices and external displays simultaneously, there will probably be port(s) on the new power supply to allow that.

With Apple promoting USB C as a major new connector, my bet is that they eventually replace their Lightening ports with USB C, which will be compatible with Euro regulations.

**EDIT:** I dug up some articles

[Overview and history of the 12" MacBook rumor](_URL_1_)

[Article about the USB C port on the rumored 12" MacBook](_URL_0_)

[Technical details of the 100 watt power supply and DisplayPort over USB C specifications](_URL_2_)

So it looks like you are able to get up to up to 10Gbps data transfer, 4K video feed, HD surround sound audio feed, and 100 watts of power simultaneously through 1 USB type C cord if I am understanding the technical details.

To extrapolate the way Apple has productized in the past, it looks like Apple will be able to make cheap passive adapters to convert the USB C port into: a standard USB connector, a gigabit ethernet connector, a thunderbolt/DisplayPort connector, HDMI, DVI, and VGA connectors, maybe firewire if they feel like continuing to support it.

There has got to be a way to plug in displays and peripherals when you're charging the thing. Maybe the standard power supply will include at least a pass through USB C connector or 2 that can be adapted to whatever ports you need. Maybe more ports than that.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Can someone ELI5 why this is even going to be a law? Most phones already have a micro usb connection, and what does it matter if Apple uses lighting? The regulation should be that all cables end with a USB so that you don't have to buy new bricks/car adapters. 

Edit: Yes I remember how phones used to be, I thought this law was proposed after the rise of android when most phones were smartphones and either had micro usb or Apple's connectors. I'll mark this comment as explained.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Follow up: How would such law address advances in USB technology? Are Europeans just going to be stuck with uUSB forever, or does the law say that when a better product is introduced as a standard companies will be obliged to implement that port into their devices?
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: According to [this news article](_URL_3_), that rule could come into force "as early as 2017"....
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: At the minute, its a guideline that the EU is really happy if you follow, but there is work in progress to make it law. (Apple do sell an adapter for cheap compared to Apple, and I believe they can just put one in the box to comply if it becomes law.)
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Everyone complaining seems to have forgotten (or never experienced) the days of feature phones when each had a custom power connector.

I guess you people enjoy having to sort through a wall of printer cartridges and then pay through the nose for the only one your printer takes.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: It's a shame and embarassing to see all the Americans come on here and bash the EU for proposing a law that is in favor of their people and environment and NOT large corporate entities. This is a prime example of the difference between how many laws are drafted in the EU versus US.

It also goes to show the different mentality between people on both continents.

The purpose of the law is to standardize the method of charging a mobile phone, reduce environmental impact, and to benefit consumers.

In my opinion, as a consumer, why wouldn't you want all phones to have the same charging port? This avoids what Apple did with the iPhone 5... they changed the charging port and forced everyone to buy a new accessories that adapted to the new port. This is totally unfair to customers.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: First, the council did not specify that it has to be micro USB. Just that it should be a common charger. Second, many here seem to be under the misconception that this is a law. It's a directive, which does work differently.

So to your question:

The directive will be effective 2017, so Apple still has nearly two full years to work something out. There has been a voluntary agreement between smartphone producers to use microUSB in 2011, but that has run out since and some firms are already implementing their own solutions, again. Apple simply never signed this 2011 agreement.

Source: [The directive itself](_URL_5_) and [Wikipedia on the common external power supply](_URL_4_).
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Apple agreed with the EU to adopt Micro USB on its phones way back in 2009....then promptly adopted the proprietary and patent encumbered lightning connector.

So, the EU introduced new regulations that means all phone manufacturers will have to use Micro USB by the end of 2016. 

So just 7 years later then.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: ITT: People who don't understand why standardisation of common components isn't a step forward.

And in answer to the many comments about what happens when USB 3 or another format is available which is better.... The law isn't that Micro USB must be used.  It is that all manufacturers must use an agreed connector specification so if the manufactures agree to change, they inform the EU with the date of change and apply the change.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Why the fuck is the EU imposing rules on what connector types phones can use?
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: EDIT: After some research I can't seem to actually find the directive text to be able to tell. However Apple were one of the manufacturers that supported it so I'm going to assume they will be changing in the near future.

So far as I was aware, and I will need to double check this, the rule exists to prevent wastage and duplication. You can make an exemption if your connector is reusable. So although the lightning connector only works with Apple products, as it works with all of them (iPhone, iPad, iPod) it can be classes as reusable. The rule was created mostly to prevent things like some old Samsung and Alcatels using proprietary connectors that only worked for one phone. 

Additionally the rule applies to chargers. The lightening connector is a 50/50 charger and data transfer so may be exempt. 

I'll do some research and update though, unless someone else does in the interim.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: "Have you got an iPhone charger? Not the old one, the new one" - every day at every office...
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Actually the EU ruling was, that vendors should agree upon a common power supply specification (voltage, current and connector) to be used for the *chargers* for mobile phones. The EU didn't endorse a particular connector standard at all. USB was just a convenient choice.

Anyway, that EU ruling was only temporary binding and was toned down to a recommendation about a year ago (give or take a few months).

Since the ruling only covered the chargers and not the phones, so that the electronic waste caused by throwing perfectly fine, but obsolete power supplies would be reduced. So Apple just provides a small adaptor chord which allows you to charge an iPhone on an arbitrary USB power supply and thereby fulfilled the requirements.

Personally I'm not a big fan of Apple, but from an engineering point of view I consider the Lighting connector far superior to Micro-USB-2 and also the new USB-C connector.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Apple uses legal loopholes to claim that the iPhone is not, in fact, a phone.

Also, since I have realized how useless it would be to reply individually to the onslaught of people asking:

This law is also common sense, it may be hard to understand for computer connections, but think of wall outlets.  You see that plug in the wall? There are ones like it in most rooms of most buildings in the country, the same power from the same power plants goes to all of them, and works with all the electronic devices you can plug into it.  Now, imagine that every time we bought a new TV, or a new computer, or a new video game system, or anything else we plug in, we had to hire a contractor to put in another one of those specifically for the new device before we could use it.   That would be awful wouldn't it?
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: The law gave companies a grace period of a couple of years to decide on a universal charger and to adapt their models so it doesn't actually come into effect for 2-3 years
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Question should be: "How does Apple get away with selling iPhones"
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Why has the EU made a micro USB connection a rule?
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: The ruling was brought in to reduce the amount of waste created by redundant chargers.  Just google eu mobile phone charger waste.
As for how apple gets away with it, no idea.  But I'm going to guess it's down to money.  They can probably drag their feet and pay the fines and still not notice any profit loss.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Purely and simply, as far as I'm aware, the ruling isn't actually meant to come into force until 2017, and so as of yet Apple has no obligation to change their European iPhone designs as of yet
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: On a similar note, why were Microsoft fined and ordered to offer alternatives to Internet Explorer, in Europe at least, and Apple weren't?
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: my understanding of the situation was the the EU pressured the major brands, who complied because they aren't dicks. All except for one.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: This.

Iphone 6 - ~~600~~  

Iphone 6 - 630 - Complimentary micro usb included.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: I don't know anything about getting around those regulations but damn do I wish we had something like that in the US. It's gotten better now since it's basically the Iphone style or micro USB, but in the past it was a nightmare to try to find a charger when you were at a friends house or something like that.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: All phones in the US are also supposed to use the standard Microusb connection.  There are a couple good reasons why that law was put in place.  
  
Apple doesn't care though, and they argue that their phones are "Entertainment Devices" and not Cell Phones, therefore they don't need to follow the rules for Cell Phones.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: So, if all mobile phones in the EU must use MicroUSB, and Apple devices require an adapter, do all Apple devices in the EU come with that adapter - or is Apple saying "fuck you" and passing the costs of that on to the consumer? Sounds like the latter, and typical Apple.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: They have to include a lightning to microusb adapter free to the consumer w/ their purchase of an Iphone.

To everyone in the thread who says that its stupid...It's to prevent companies from forcing people to buy new proprietary accessories every time they get a new phone.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: So why a EU wide standard in what connects FROM the charger to the device and not one that mandates conformity on connections from the device TO the wall... I HATE travel adaptors :\
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: That's why I walked away from the iPhone 5.  Sick of buying proprietary cables. Nokia 925 w. Windows Phone 8.1 rocks and it charges with ANY mico-usb.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: what if they just say it's a camera/media player which comes with phone functionality? Like tungsten light bulbs being heaters that were able to emit light?
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Follow up question: how will companies ever be able to innovate a better charging method?  Will phones in 2236 have to have a microusb charger?
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: I don't care for microusb, I'd like to see a new connector that is faster than what we currently have, and reversible
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Apple has a specified amount of time to comply with the regulation. I believe they have a few years to go.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: That legislation isn't fully in effect yet, they predict it will be fully In place by 2017.
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Too bad USB has come out with a new connector....
question: How does Apple get away with selling iPhones in Europe when the EU rule that all mobile phones must use a micro USB connection? answer: Because people keep buying their products even if they don't.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: It's simple: developers have learned how to use hardware more efficiently, engines have improved over time.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Most answers here have already covered the prospect of developers using better-optimized engines. This is important, but it's not the whole story.

Firstly, just because the hardware stays the same doesn't mean the runtime does. Modern consoles have flashable firmware, and firmware can be improved. Operations that take place through firmware APIs might become perceivably faster (like loading times). Potentially certain graphics APIs might improve also. Firmware updates may also add new features or fix bugs.

Secondly, compilers themselves get better over time, and even the same code will perform better on newer compilers that exploit the host architecture better. They may employ better use of pipelining, be smarter about what routines can be replaced with native hardware operations, or get better at analysing the 'intent' of source code and finding faster translations at machine level. Most consoles use unique or uncommon architectures, so compiler improvements for desktop and mobile systems (x86 and ARM respectively) have to be 'reinvented' for consoles, so to speak. Using an up to date compiler can improve performance quite dramatically.

Thirdly, as consoles mature, more common code will exist for them, in the form of third party libraries, engines and frameworks, and this means many titles can benefit to optimization work done in a single codebase. Less wheels to reinvent and bugs to chase means developers can focus on adding more features or speeding up what they already have.

Finally, it's a bit unfair to compare launch titles to mature releases because the latter will always be more polished. Launch titles will have simpler levels and less attractive graphics because they're usually rushed out of the door. This will impact your perception of the differences too.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: So mommy bought you a coloring book and some crayons. You will color just fine, but you notice that mommy's drawings are much prettier. Even though you and mommy both have the same stuff, she has more experience and knows how to use the crayons better (you just broke your crayon from pushing too hard and now it's taped together, while mommy can make different effects with her crayons.)
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: The hardware is the same throughout the consoles life. The improvements aren't in processing power- it might run cooler or gain outputs, but a 360 bought today is no more powerful than a launch 360. 

It's all about learning the architecture and ways of coding more efficiently etc. launch games were built with early knowledge of the hardware; games released now benefit from a decade of experience and coding. Developers also use methods to work around the limitations, eg, decrease resolution, decrease draw distance etc while using methods to make these not as apparent. 

I'm personally stunned at how Far Cry 4 looks on the 360. That's more of an achievment to me than the next gen versions.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Mostly new rendering techniques. Since 2006, the use of cascaded shadow maps, deferred shading, and physically-based lighting were widely implemented. 

Traditional "forward" rendering draws each object to the screen with fancy lighting - meaning anything behind other stuff was wasted effort. Deferred shading instead renders information about the object, like distance and shininess for each pixel, and then fancy lighting only happens once per pixel after all objects are rendered. (This also makes ambient occlusion simple - that's the darkening effect in corners, which makes even flat lighting pop.) Cascaded shadow maps put more detail near the player, letting shadows look sharper overall without ignoring them far away. Physically-based lighting modifies decades-old equations for brightness and shininess by e.g. including real measurements of surface roughness, adding colored reflections for metal, and increasing shininess at acute angles. That's how you get round objects that don't look like 1990s CGI, or shiny wet roads, gold that's not flat yellow, and reeeally pretty car paint. 

Talking about "efficiency" is a canard. Yes, well-understood hardware is easier to push, but if that was the central issue then GTAV would still look like COD2 with a higher framerate.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Sure, what everyone else has said BUT if you play a game from 2007-2008 which will be nice and smooth then play GTA 5 it will suffer from low frame rates. Same thing on a PC with static hardware. You have an older have running at 90fps then a brand new have that looks amazing comparatively but can only muster 30fps.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Because they use all kinds of 'dirty' tricks these days..

Yes, there have been improved engines and optimizations for the hardware, but that isn't enough. Many games on consoles don't run at 1080p or even 720p, most of them are at odd resolutions to reduce the pixel count and then get scaled up to avoid black bars. Other games even use odd vertical resolutions and then stretch the image. Games like CoD also fudge with the field of fiew, the narrower they set it the less pixel they have to render, which becomes really obvious on pc ports, were those FoV settings are nauseating (due to the short distance from the screen). 
 
Have you noticed how weapon models in shooters have become ridiculously big in recent years? They cover like 20-30% of the screen to avoid rendering the stuff behind it.

It's the same with 3rd person with Dead Space (Camera) Syndrome, were the character is moved to the left and slightly forward..that character model now covers 25-35% of the screen..

Notice how certain games only play at night with a shitty flashlight, that doesn't show much? Well everything that's pitch black doesn't need to be rendered and everything that isn't illuminated by the flashlight only has to be roughly rendered, because you can't make out details anyway.

There are also lots of games with narrow corridor/claustrophobic levels instead of more open world settings in the past. If you restrict the camera movement or intentional break the line of sight with lots of obstructions (like dirty/milky windows, rubble, etc.) then you can control the amount of distance that needs to be rendered at the expense of player freedom.

There are probably a lot of other tricks, that I forgot, but that's basically how it works. They combine optimizations with a number of these dirty tricks with 30 or lower fps to squeeze barely playable performance out of their games. It's also the same reason why many games have very low player numbers in multiplayer compared to pc games.

Honestly the graphics of most console games aren't good at all, when you're used to PC quality and even the new generation isn't much better. I don't know if console gamers simply don't care or don't know better. But, I'm not complaining, as a side effect even a toaster level PC can now run multiplatform titles at reasonable settings.

But the point is you can't magically pull fancy graphics out of outdated console hardware, not even with all the optimizations in the world. It will always come at the expense of something else.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: I watched these 5 videos last night and found them fascinating. 


A Brief History of Graphics: _URL_0_


Basically though you can count on the first few games of any "generation" to just be a port from the previous generation, but overtime improvements in game design, mechanics, and hardware realization allow for higher quality games.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: I wrote a program for my Teamspeak server. It would start up, connect to the server, make some changes based on conditions, and then disconnect and end. It would do this every 5 seconds.

For some reason, this program would also cause problems with the server. It would cause the entire computer to crash after 2-5 days. I tried fixing it but couldn't do anything, so I gave up and dealt with the crashes.

2 years later, I came back and rewrote it. This time I made a loop so the program only has to be run once, and stays connected the entire time. I then was able to run it twice a second.

It ran 10 times faster, used up less CPU, and the crashes disappeared. No hardware changes at all. The only thing that truly changed was me, the programmer. I gained experience and was able to make improvements with my new knowledge.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Everything else in this thread is pretty much true, but I think the best way to put it (rather than making it consoles specific) is that over time, we get better at writing efficient code.

For example, if you want to do "perfect" lighting, you have to do it in one way (the perfect way), and that won't change/get significantly easier. If instead you want "good" lighting, you can cut all sorts of corners when writing the code to make it.

We are constantly getting better at cutting corners while still making things look good. An example on the PC of this would be Minecraft's recent update - they found a way to easily not render elements not on the screen, making the game run a lot smoother.

Consoles provide a nice, static platform that video game makers can consistently optimise for, but such optimisations also happen on other platforms too - they are just less noticeable because their specifications change over time.

As a good example Crysis 2 is (usually) much easier to run on PC than Crysis 1 is... Mostly because it came out later and they found all sorts of ways to "cut corners" on their lighting or particle effects while still looking fantastic.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: It's like juggling.

You have a basic human juggler.  He stays the same, hardware wise.  He's got two hands.  At first, he can only juggle 3 balls of the same weight.  He's just repeating a predictable motion over and over and over.  Catch, hold for an instant, release, wait, repeat.  But there's a lot of time when both hands are empty.  By practicing his timing, he can add more balls to the point where one of his hands is always holding a ball, but there's still lots of time where one hand is essentially just sitting there waiting.  Practicing *even further*, he can make a routine so complex that he's got so many different bowling pins, machetes, chainsaws, hackey sacks, and such in the air that his hands are almost never empty.  They're constantly opening and closing and catching and throwing.

Same juggler. Same hardware. But he's doing vastly more because he's timed his work perfectly to avoid any wasted use of his hands.

Game programming is similar.  You've got the basic steps of 1) process user input (IO controllers), 2) calculate the game world state (CPU), 3) turn the game world state into polygons and send it to the Graphics Processor (GPU and memory bandwidth), 4) wait for the GPU to render a frame and GOTO STEP 1. 

When the programmers are unfamiliar with the hardware, they have to do it in a generic way that is basically doing one step at a time.  The IO chips sit idle while the CPU is processing the game state.  The CPU sits idle while the GPU is rendering a frame.

By the end of a hardware generation, the programmers are juggling chainsaws and bowling pins at the same time.  They never send the GPU more than it can render in 1/60 of a second, but they also never make the GPU wait for something to render.  They send exactly the right amount of data to the GPU every 1/60 of a second (for 60fps).  While the GPU is rendering, the CPU is processing IO and preparing the next batch of data to give to the GPU.  They know the exact balance of polygons (chainsaws) and textures (bowling pins) that the GPU can handle most gracefully.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Graphics engines have improved significantly over the years allowing for better visuals and devs figured out how to work with the limitations of the consoles.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: The polygon count does not go up much its just the textures and lighting and coloring. If you play COD4/oblivion right after gta5 you will notice that the graphics on the consoles in general did not improve any or much at all.  Also most of the improvements to the eye candy in gta5 came at a huge cost in framerate.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: I'm going to focus on the PS3 because it's the best example of optimizing, though Xbox 360 was in a similar situation. The PS3 used something called a "cell processor", which was very similar to a supercomputer at the time. It was very powerful (based on Power architecture, seen in Macs, the Xbox 360 and PS3), but completely undiscovered. Experience for developing on this format was near non-existent so it took them a very long time to bring out everything it had 
to offer.

Because the developers had such a hard time using the technology, it was perfectly logical for them to transition to a much more popular format used by AMD and Intel (processor producing companies).  

Now on the PS4 and XB1 they switched over to a x86 architecture used on PCs and Macs. It is the most well known and understood processor format. They're practically computers in every way, and any optimization for the new-generation consoles will be almost non-existent.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: People talk about the efficiency of the engines, better understanding of hardware, etc on the current consoles or the PS2.  The difference was gigantic on the NES, even more so.  But probably the biggest difference is actually the Atari 2600, where the programmers figured out many loopholes and glitches and bugs to do things the system was supposed to be incapable of.  The Atari 2600 was basically designed to do pong-like games, but they stretched it to CRAAAAAZY levels. 

Here's a launch title: _URL_2_

Most of the launch titles are basically squares and lines.

Compare this to Solaris, almost a decade after the launch.  It's amazing what they did:

_URL_2_
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: As devs got more experienced with the hardware and software architecture, they were able to squeeze a lot more performance out of the machines.  They worked out all sorts of shortcuts and corner-cutting to allow them to get as much as they could out of the consoles.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: How is good furniture and shit furniture made with the same tools?  Its all about the craftsman.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: A few changes occurred with game graphics in the last generation.

1. Emergence of post process (blur) antialiasing over very computationally expensive MSAA. Instead of having pixel perfect AA, take a small hit in image quality in the form of blur but save lots of performance. 

2. Finding new ways to offload graphics tasks to the PS3's cell processor, freeing resources for the graphics chip. 

3. Tools to monitor performance became better allowing them to eliminate bottlenecks. You can get millisecond precision graphs to see how much time it takes to render every effect and find out what caused the FPS drop.

4. Lighter implementation of existing effects. For eg. ambient occlusion in older games had a huge performance impact on PC. Now they do not.

5. Adaptive VSync. Balance screen tearing and frame rate. As long as framerate is above 30 use Vsync, otherwise drop Vsync for better framerate.

There are compromises made as well to increase visual fidelity. Frame rate drops are more common than they used to be before. Good companies like Rockstar make sure to balance stuff out so that it does not happen much. However incompetent companies **Cough**Ubi**Cough** couldn't be bothered to optimise their games.

This is not much of an ELI5 explanation, but I found the top answer to be almost ELI2. :)
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: The short story is that developers got better at using what's inside, an extreme example is seeing what the Commodore 64 can do today compared to 1982.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Optimization, they learned the hardware.

Also if you're used to low frame rates you don't notice how shit they are.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: You can only load x amount of textures and models so fast. The more detailed the model (higher poly count) and higher res texture (256px, 512px, 1024px, etc.) will take a longer time to load and will hog more vram/dram and system ram. Thus requiring more time for the environment to be generated.  
  
The 360 has 512mb of shared ram, and ps3 has 256mb of system and 256mb video ram. Now, I don't know what kind of texture files GTA5 uses, but your average 1024x1024 .tga (lossless, uncompressed, with alpha) file is about 4MB large. So by increasing texture resolution, GTA5 takes longer to procedurally generated the environment, which is why if you drive really fast in-game, you can experience buildings and shit popping up out of nowhere and even objects loading after you crash into them (like hitting an invisible mailbox or car or wall).  
  
So ya, sure devs learned how to use hardware more efficiently, but there is a limit to optimization. So in order to have better textures, it takes longer to load the environment.  
  
Another example would be Forza 5 on xbox one. The environment load fine, and the cars are beautiful, but that graphical improvement has to come out of somewhere. So the devs made all the crowds motionless cardboard cutouts. No polys (ok, so technically a single flat rectangular panel to paste their photo of a person onto), and plenty of recycles textures for the crowds, which uses very little resources in comparison to a full 3d person.  
  
Also framerate issues.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: The short answer is that people got a lot better at programming for those platforms. Imagine it like playing tetris, when you first play it, you just lump the pieces together and you aren't entirely sure how you're even supposed to form the lines, then you figure out how the different pieces slot together well, then after a bit of practice you instantly know how to pack everything together so that you can efficiently get tetris every time a straight line piece shows up. They just became very, very efficient at using the hardware at hand to get the best results, maximizing processor time and running the graphics processing at full bung. Also, and this is pretty evident with titles like GTA 5, they figured out how to really make good use of the hard drive as virtual memory rather than a storage device.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: New tricks in design and development.  The PS3 and 360 era saw the invention of using multiple textures for the same area.  Take games like Fallout 3 or Skyrim.  If you look at an object in the distance, it has a very basic texture applied to it, used to both make it appear further away and to save on memory.   As you approach the object, new and more detailed textures load in to replace the existing one, giving it more detail.   I'm sure you've seen a texture "pop in"?  Thats this process in action.   This allows the available memory to only be used within the players field of view and within a certain distance.   Tricks like these were developed specifically to get around the limitations of 10 year old hardware.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Riddle me this: Rogue Squadron 2 is a GC launch title, and looks way better than most Gamecube games.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: More efficient use of that same hardware. Fine tuning streaming things in and out of main memory. Getting better use of multicore on both systems, especially the PS3s byzantine Cell architecture (which had to often be used later on to make up for the shitty RSX GPU just to break even with Xenos, which killed some of the benefit it could have had).  Compilers and developer kits also improve over time, in terms of compilers often even the same code written 7 years ago would run faster with no changes if run through a modern compiler, as they find faster ways of doing things and using the hardware more effectively, like balancing instruction queues, dealing with lack of out of order, etc.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Someone posted this before, it was the analogy of fitting a square peg in a round hole, basically sanding the square peg down to fit into the hole to make it fit would be early games, as devs became more efficient the began to make rounder pegs until finally the perfected the process and made a round peg that fits perfectly in the hole, I.e. Recent games that use the full potential of the console.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Nobody seems to be mentioning that the tools used by artists are also advancing rapidly. Things like motion capture, sculpting tools, and software to optimize models and animations.

For example, Master Chief in Halo 2 looks much better despite using less polygons, because they used a method called normal mapping, which bakes geometry detail from a model into the bump map. Before, geometry was modeled and the bump map was painted on top.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: There should be a caveat to this. While late-generation Xbox 360 and PS3 games look better, I noticed that they often came with poor frame rates and aggressive level-of-detail settings.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: This Topic reminds me of playing WATCH_DOGS, then playing GTA Online after and totally being blown away by the Crispy HD Difference by Rockstar. It was Mind Blowing. 
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: It is really about coming up with better algorithms to display the graphics. They may have learned new tricks in how we perceive graphics too.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Graphics engine programmer here;

The architectures of those consoles and the design philosophies they imposed meant that new techniques were required to get the most out of the machines, it's true for any generation (Except maybe for the PS4 and XBone, which use x86 core that have over 20 years of PC research already invested in them!).


* 360 and PS3 required multi-threaded programming to get the most out of their power - This meant that new research was needed in creating efficient threading paradigms, especially on the PS3's Cell Arch.

* The balance between CPU and GPU weighed more towards GPU for that generation of consoles - This meant that the old "Fast logic = best performance = more room for graphics" was slightly incorrect, it became "More utilisation of the GPU = best performance" and that meant more research was needed; deferred rendering is the solution to this.

* PS3 was new arch - Required a lot of skill to take advantage of the machine at first, but now lots of research has been put into this so we're pretty good at parallel stream operations now

* The graphics might not be better! Early games targeted 1080p 60FPS, later games seem to drop to 540p 30FPS, which reduced GPU memory for the display buffers by 1/8th, handy if you want lots of light information for a deferred renderer.


TLDR; early 360/PS3 games used traditional forward rendering where the graphics are drawn in one-go, later 360/PS3 games used deferred rendering (to take more advantage of the graphics power rather than the processing power) where the light information is drawn separately which means more detailed lighting.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: IIRC, a big reason as to why GTA V and Halo 4 looked so good was because they required you to install a heavy portion of the game in advance. Halo 4 could only look so good if they were able to fit the entire single player on one disc and throw the multiplayer on another. When you install GTA, your console is able to recall data a lot quicker than it would be reading an optical disc for its content. 

It really is a wonder how developers were able to make their games look as good as they did. Even with some work arounds, old hardware is old hardware. If you look at a game like Halo 4, GTA, or Uncharted (to name a few) you can tell that the publishers pretty much gave each studio a blank check to make the games look as good as they did. 

It really excites me to see what a game might look like if it were designed for modern hardware. I think once developers drop support for previous generation consoles and focus on the current gen and PCs, you'll see better graphics. Unfortunately, the problem is that consoles are inherently limiting. By today's standards, it's hard to compete with newer hardware, even after a couple years. I guess we'll see what happens, but I wouldn't be surprised if we saw "upgraded" hardware a la the Nintendo 64's upgraded RAM unit from back in the day... Something along those lines haha.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: I'd like to add to all the answers saying devs got better and better at taking advantage of the hardware. That is true, but I'll use your example of GTA V to point out that they really started pushing the hardware further than they could. GTA V looks pretty good for a console game in screenshots, but it's a bitch to play. There is a lot of pop in while driving around and the aliasing is terrible. Pop in occurs when textures that weren't loaded into the rendered scene suddenly appear. You want to do this gradually at a really long view distance and slowly improve the texture as you get to it. This let's you trade some graphical fidelity when it can go unnoticed for a performance increase. Unfortunately in GTA V, this happened at very obvious times, even in the opening sequence which doesn't more by that quickly. Aliasing is the jaggieness caused when you try to draw a straight texture across a diagonal. It causes the edges of objects to have a saw-tooth look and when they move across the screen, they "shimmer." You can trade performance for antialiasing techniques, but the consoles had nothing left to give. Both of these together make driving very difficult in high population areas.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: 2 reasons:

* Programmers understand those consoles better than they did a couple of years ago, allowing them to create more efficient code. That means they can do more before they reach the console's limits than they could a few years back. 

* Game technology evolves as well. Game engines (basically the core of the game, around which everything else is built) get optimisations. They work more and more efficiently as developers work on it for years. And every now and then, some new type of anti aliasing or other technology is invented, or a game like Crysis (it was a big deal back in the day) gets released and raises the bar and which other game developers feel they should live up to in their next games.

Don't expect the first reason to make Playstation 4/Xbox One games much better than they already are, though. The current generation of consoles are practically PC's. They're x86 computers, which is just what your PC is as well. And x86 hardware is already well understood by developers, since it's been a big deal for the last 30 or so years. The current hardware is more powerful, but the current consoles aren't vastly different than gaming PCs we've had for years.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: I heard it explained like this once and it helped me understand. Think of an Xbox like a truck. When you first get a truck, you fill it up in the obvious places, the trunk, you put stuff on the seat. This stuff is your graphics. As time goes on, you discover more and more places to put stuff, like under the seats, behind the dashboard, inside the bumper. Your able to get even more stuff into truck than before.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Maybe someone could touch on this but I remember hearing something along the lines of "the difference between 1000 polygons vs 10,000 polygons is much more visually noticeable than the difference between 10,000 polygons and 30,000 polygons." Or something to that effect. That as game graphics get better and better the advancements will be harder for the eye to notice even though they are technically just as large, if not larger. Is this true?

EDIT - extra quotation marks
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Hardware in the past was fucking weird. So developers learned to use the hardware more efficiently as time went on. Now, the consoles run off x86, an architecture everyone is familiar with, so devs are utilizing nearly 100% of the hardware's capabilities.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Think of it as a factory and workers, the product they make is the game. Instead of more workers, they train the workers to use a more efficient method of production and produce a better product and possibly do it faster.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Optimization.

Years of using the same hardware, leads to years in engine development.

Think how good PS4 and Xbox One games look right now, I look forward to seeing how good they will look in a few years time.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: _URL_3_
games that look good on a older console look great on a PC with the same graphics card. 

Optimization is a marketing gimmick like having to replace your mattress before its more skin than mattress
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Pick up a guitar and practise for 6 years.. see if the music you make six years later is the same quality as the music you make when you started.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: If you take a stone and continue to polish it, the quality improves because you're gradually taking away things that obscure the hidden beauty.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: This always happens as developers get better at the hardware.

Compare Ice Climber (1986)

_URL_5_

to The Jungle Book (1994)

_URL_4_
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: The more times you clean up your room, the cleaner it gets and the better you get at cleaning it.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: It's the same on most consoles. Another good example is Super Mario World vs Donkey Kong Country on Super Nintendo.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: How you utilize the tools given to you can make a huge difference in the end product.
question: How were graphics able to improve on consoles like XboX 360 and PS3? The hardware didn't change at all but if you compare any 2006 or 2007 game to like GTA 5, you can see a big difference. answer: Found more efficient ways of programming it and creating the same effects.
question: What would you see, feel, and hear if a nuclear bomb was dropped 10-15 miles away?I really want to know what would happen if a nuke was dropped 10-15 miles away. I want to know everything I would see or hear and how everything would feel. Would there be a rumbling and bright light, with the mushroom cloud above? Would I instantly evaporate?  answer: It would depend on the size of the nuclear weapon. The [nukemap website](_URL_0_) allows you to see how large the blast radius would be for various nuclear payloads.

So for example if you're talking about a 15 kiloton bomb, such as was used at Hiroshima, then from 15 miles away you'd certainly see the flash, hear the explosion, and see the mushroom cloud, but you'd be unlikely to suffer any physical damage. The biggest threat would come from remaining in the area for several weeks afterwards and so coming into contact with the nuclear fallout (dust, ash, and other debris that is radioactive).

On the other hand if the largest ever US nuclear bomb (15 megatons) was detonated, then at 15 miles you'd still be within the thermal radiation (= heat) zone. There'd probably be enough power still in the blast pressure to knock you off your feet, and exposed areas of skin would likely be burned. If you'd been looking directly at the explosion you'd almost certainly have been blinded. Unless you leave the area *very* quickly you'll probably receive a fatal dose of radiation from the fallout and will die of radiation sickness in 14-28 days.

The USSR had plans for bombs of at least up to 100 megatons, the blast pressure from which would have almost certainly instantly killed anyone within about 20 miles of the detonation site. I'm not sure if warheads of this power were ever actually created, though.
question: What would you see, feel, and hear if a nuclear bomb was dropped 10-15 miles away?I really want to know what would happen if a nuke was dropped 10-15 miles away. I want to know everything I would see or hear and how everything would feel. Would there be a rumbling and bright light, with the mushroom cloud above? Would I instantly evaporate?  answer: First, the flash and heat.  Gamma will not likely be an issue at this range unless the bomb is tremendous.  Let's stick with the 10 mile number.

In fact at 10 miles you won't get thermal burns from the size of strategic thermonuclear weapons used today.  For example the [W88](_URL_3_) is a "big one" common in the US arsenal, and that's 475 kt.  But also common is the 100kt W76 warhead for MIRVs.

So using [NukeMap](_URL_3_), the thermal burn radius is 5.66 miles and you're well outside that.  Some warmth would be felt.

Anyhow, initially it would be *completely* silent, only flash and heat.  That's instantaneous.

The next effect would be determined by geology.  The PRIMARY seismic waves travel at [1 to 5 miles/sec](_URL_3_) so you may feel a tremor (with no destructive power) in 2-10 sec at 10 miles.

Sound travels a 0.216 miles/sec.  After the first seismic tremor reaches your, may initially hear some murmuring created as the faster-moving seismic wave radiates from things it shakes nearer to you.  The sound from the blast itself will take a full 46 sec to reach you.

The wind traveling out of the base is much slower still... it's harder to calculate the exact speed it will reach you, but the radius where the blast overpressure is generally *destructive* and causes injury is only 3.37 miles.  At 10 miles, it won't even be able to knock you off your feet even if you didn't expect it, probably comparable to the sort of winds buildings are expecting to encounter in a storm so no damage.

FALLOUT is another issue.  Unexpectedly, the area near the blast of a strategic airburst gets surprisingly little fallout, because the tremendous updraft of a mushroom cloud draws the radionucleotides into the upper atmosphere.  

It WILL eventually fall back downwind.  And 10 miles from the epicenter is possible if the winds are light, and under light winds the intensity is high.  If you're upwind, you're good.  If downwind... you might wanna be somewhere else. 

The intense radiation-sickness-inducing level of fallout typically lasts only a few weeks.  Past that we worry about cancer from absorbed strontium-90 and caesium-137.  Those aren't as highly radioactive, but absorb and stay in the body (if you eat, drink, or breathe it) for a long time.  

They may not be a big issue for living there if you don't eat food or drink water from the area.  Furthermore, the "antiradiation pills" are potassium iodide, designed to saturate the blood with "safe" nonradioactive potassium and iodine, which greatly reduces absorption of certain harmful isotopes.

No, the biggest long-term problem is the city that just got destroyed was probably the reason for your suburb's existence.  Without it, there's no economy.  The supporting industries needed to get things done on a daily basis- gas stations, utilities, hardware stores- are gone.  

There will likely be an influx of refugees in the coming days.  The volume of people trying to leave will be high.  Some ran out of gas when the nearby stations ran out or lost electricity for the pumps, some simply gave up knowing hotels 50 miles out are booked.  Perhaps the road became impassable when overcrowded and then jammed with a few cars that broke down and everyone abandoned their cars and walked to your place.  It's hard to predict how far out the highway failure will end up, the roads may just clog and stop 5 miles from the center and oddly NO traffic at all where you're at.

They'll camp on the street, on the lawn, and beg to come into your home.  There is insufficient food in your area to support people.  The grocery stores will not be restocked with the roads all messed up like that.

In the next few years, your property will probably be worthless, as there's no economy left to make anyone want to live there.  I hope you just rent.  In fact you may be better off loading everything important into the truck and leaving right away, before the roads become impassable due to the insane outflux of people.
question: What would you see, feel, and hear if a nuclear bomb was dropped 10-15 miles away?I really want to know what would happen if a nuke was dropped 10-15 miles away. I want to know everything I would see or hear and how everything would feel. Would there be a rumbling and bright light, with the mushroom cloud above? Would I instantly evaporate?  answer: If you're curious what it would look like in 3D, try [NUKEMAP3D](_URL_4_). It lets you plant a bomb somewhere, go to a different location on the ground, and then shows you what the mushroom cloud would look like. E.g. [here is a 20 kiloton blast on San Francisco](_URL_5_) as viewed from a house in the Berkeley hills I once lived in.
question: What would you see, feel, and hear if a nuclear bomb was dropped 10-15 miles away?I really want to know what would happen if a nuke was dropped 10-15 miles away. I want to know everything I would see or hear and how everything would feel. Would there be a rumbling and bright light, with the mushroom cloud above? Would I instantly evaporate?  answer: well,it depends on what you mean by nuclear bomb. if you mean hiroshima yield,then at 10 miles you would see a flash, you would see the mushroom cloud in the distance, a few seconds later you would hear a low rumble and a kinda strong very warm, but not hot, wind. 

the original a-bomb had only around 700 kiloton-1 megaton yield and a destructive radius of only(lol only) around 3-4 miles (1 miles of which is fireball, then the next mile is vapourize you super heated air, the third mile is burn things and blow down buildings after that the air gets cooler and, slows as the shockwave dissipates, minor fires go for a few more miles, by 10 miles though you should be fine.)
question: What would you see, feel, and hear if a nuclear bomb was dropped 10-15 miles away?I really want to know what would happen if a nuke was dropped 10-15 miles away. I want to know everything I would see or hear and how everything would feel. Would there be a rumbling and bright light, with the mushroom cloud above? Would I instantly evaporate?  answer: I've been told by a weapons designer that there is no upper limit to how large you can make a H-bomb. However any surface blast over 100MT becomes tactically useless as the blast radius is so large that most of the energy is released into space.
question: What would you see, feel, and hear if a nuclear bomb was dropped 10-15 miles away?I really want to know what would happen if a nuke was dropped 10-15 miles away. I want to know everything I would see or hear and how everything would feel. Would there be a rumbling and bright light, with the mushroom cloud above? Would I instantly evaporate?  answer: Also make sure you have an old fridge in case you're too close.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Tapping is very different from hacking. Hacking is much more detectable, because it generally involves compromising a device you are using.

The kind of tapping under discussion here is just making a copy of the data as it travels over the line, not at the destination. The equivalent metaphor would be the post office taking pictures of postcards as they go through the system. Would you know when the postcard arrives if the post office made a copy of it?
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Intelligence agencies in these countries knew and even participated. However just because an the intelligence agency knew, does not mean that the entire government knew. It also does not mean that the general population knew.

In the USA congress and even the president are not told about everything the NSA and CIA are doing.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: They almost certainly have been. However admitting they allowed the US to intercept the data of their own civilians in exchange for the US sorting, collating, processing the data and passing it back to them would be political suicide so they're all expressing mock outrage. 

As an added bonus, piggybacking onto the US spynet also gives them plausible deniability if their own citizens ever discover what's going on.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: They've known all along - at least segments of them have. They all tap everyone they can and then share select tidbits with each other. It is extremely disingenuous of most western countries, including European liberal democracies to act all outraged by the so called 'revelation' that this tapping has been going on. The simple fact is that everyone does it and everyone keeps relatively quiet about it until some PITA whistleblower comes along and forces everyone into public statements of 'outrage'. Notice how no one is actually sanctioning anyone else about this? No one is seriously angry, they're just putting on a bit of a show until the story moves off the media cycle. A couple of politicians will probably be annoyed to learn that their private calls were listened to, but no government will take any serious action over this.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: They didn't hack them, they intercepted the information while it was going from modulated to demodulated. 

Information you see is broken down into a different form and sent from one area to the other. They intercepted this information, and not the system itself, as far as I know.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Given that each respective government in the developed world has had something we would recognise as an international spy agency since the 1930's, only someone with a what could be called a nave outlook on real life would suggest that these agencies haven't all developed in continuous parallel since their inception. 

Each government has of course differing levels of capability, but the intent is the same, nobody wants nor can afford to be the one who knows less than the rest.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Don't fall for political posturing. Its a gentlemen's game that everyone plays.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: China did and complained about that for quite some time... They called USA on their hacking every single time USA called [China] out.


Nobody believed them, though.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: I am certain other countries knew what was going on andbhave their own programs in place to do similar things to us if they can.  The problem is, the US got outed by one of our own and other nations leaders see an an opportunity to strengthen their own positions by being stern in their response to us.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: They knew they were being hacked, they were even playing along. Just now that the public knows it too, they play dumb and act like they knew nothing. The best thing to do then is act like you're angry at the NSA, so the majority of the public thinks they actually have nothing to do with it.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Former S6 for an Army battalion here. Everyday everyone tries to hack, gain access electronically, to everyone else. Most attacks or attempts to gain access come from a college in China where all of the Peoples Republics best and brightest are collected and trained to specifically do this task.

 Luckily, DOIM and the DoD mainframe are closed circuits. Meaning that they cannot be accessed from the outside. We have the SIPER net, secure internet, but it has limited data based on the theater of operation. 

If you want true access to DOIM you have to actually go into the building and use a terminal there. Just to get the GPS offset algorithm for the month I have to send someone with a secret clearance to physically go to the building and use a little black box to download it and bring it back. They have to do this every month for the comsec.

So, ELI5 they all know and they all do attempt to access each other.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: They knew. They very clearly knew:

The intelligence agencies in various countries were actually *involved*. Those that weren't involved in the US' programme are pretty slack at doing their own jobs if they don't have something similar going on, or planned. For obvious reasons, they don't go around shouting about it. 

As for the companies: the coms companies not only know, but are complicit in it; however (in both the UK and the US, and probably elsewhere) they're legally bound by injunctions which prevent disclosure not only of *what* they're doing, but that they're doing *anything*. 

Finally remember that while lots of people in the coms companies knew *something* like this was going on, they had no way of knowing the extent of it, or what was being syphoned off. 

And that's how everybody knew, but nobody knew.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: If you find out you are being listened to, you often don't acknowledge it, instead you change your communication method, and give bad intel over the compromised com system.  That's why you don't hear about other countries admitting they've been tapped.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: The five year old answer? They did know. They're just pretending they didn't so their citizens don't blame them the way US citizens are whining right now.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: They know about it, every rich country does it.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: hacking is an incorrect term for this context
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: tl;dr; Information collection is a norm and beneficial to all parties participating it thus no one rocked the boat.

You have to separate the country and the citizenry when talking of these issues so when I say country, I mean the governmental body or parts of it. Not the whole country.

Countries with high enough tech level participated either actively but most likely passively by allowing it to happen. It is easier to let rich country to take care of the data mining than to do it yourself.

Countries with low level of tech knew of it and also participated in some form or another. Countries in this bracket are in a position to gain more than the high tech countries as they can gain info and tech at the same time.

Countries without tech to participate assumed it to happen. Any security organization with sane people would deduct it to be high possibility event.

Countries which did not participate knew it but lacked means to prove it or were studying it for their own version of it. Information is power and no country actually would object of having it. Assuming adversarial nations, they would not be revealing the data collection as they too are doing it in some form or another and revealing the acts of opposition would also shine light on their situation.

The issue at hand is that the situation was revealed forcing all those countries on the active/passive participation list to react. As citizen for most parts value privacy they had no other option but to condemn the secret collection of data. This condemnation does not actually mean the countries are actually against is but their citizens are thus the outrage.

Assuming that such data collection has not happened before in smaller scale is naive, the only thing different now is that there is actual evidence of its broadness. And there has been an advantage to be part of such a network if you do not care of moral implications.

Another issue to consider is that United States has been acting in a way which also has not been comparable with the other countries. This revelation is also an outlet for the countries to condemn United States on global scale, most likely in hopes that will cause the states to reign in its actions when talking of the allies and probably also of opposition.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Intelligence Agencies around the world knew, norways intelligence agency was somewhat informed, but in Spain for instance the local intelligence agency actually performed the actual surveillance on NSAs behalf. So to varying degrees they knew exactly what was going on, probably just trying to pick up some tips and pointers on how to perform similar surveillance themselves. 

Big data is coming.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: The most likely answer is that they were aware. Everyone does this, but no one admits to it. That way, when someone else does it, you can feign outrage and take whatever action you feel you want/need to when someone else is busted.

Yay politics!
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: I would guess a lot of the technology was developed here and back doors were put in.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: The NSA is really really good, and they know to only do things they are sure they will get away with.

They won't hack a computer, even though they could, if there is any significant risk of getting discovered.

They really like passive attacks where they only listen, but don't send/change anything. For example, walk up to a fiber optics line anywhere on it's 1000s of miles of length, bend it ever so slightly so some tiny fraction of the light leaks out, capture that and read the data.

This is also why they try to get a copy of the original SSL keys instead of just hacking a CA and getting a cert for their own key. a) they can use that key to passively read the traffic if no forward secrecy is used. b) If they do a MitM using the real key, noone notices. If they use a fake cert, someone, somewhere could dump it and notice.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: [The Athens Affair](_URL_0_) is a good read.

TL;DR "...the hackers broke into a telephone network and subverted its built-in wiretapping features for their own purposes. That could have been done with any phone account, not just cellular ones."
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Wasn't this spying stuff what MJ was singing about?
"I'm starting with the man in the middle...attack...I'm asking him to change his ways"
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Tapping radio waves is completely undetectable except for heat radiation on the antennae. You'd have to look at it with a heat camera like the germans did with the american embassy.

Tapping cellphones locally can be done by pretending to be the cell tower and emitting a stronger signal. Then relaying that signal to the real tower. The phone will connect to whatever tower is strongest. Which is why the embassy phone tapping in Berlin was so effective on the German reichstag. Older phones used to tell you what the tower name was, but that seems to have disappeared with the rise of smartphones.

Tapping land lines will at worst look like the connection was disconnected and then reconnected. And possibly with worse signal capabilities. At best, nobody notices anything. A network technician looking at it will probably just think "Oh, a port flap. I'll dismiss my case since it's back up again."

Internet tapping can be done where the US controls the transit points. Meaning they're using "lawful intercept" which is basically built in wiretapping where the user sees no difference. China does this at the "great firewall" to capture political dissidents and lawbreakers. But they just plain suck at it because when they do it you'll see it because the traffic slows down if you encrypt it.

In most of the above techniques you don't try to peek into the traffic on the fly. Instead you just copy what you see to another connection which is forwarded to a server room for treatment. Probably somewhere in the NSA server centers.

edit: Forgot to add. There are coverage based enterprise solutions that you can buy from certain vendors. I won't tell you who, but you install those in a cell carriers data center. It will then collect data from the phones what kind of coverage they're getting and present it in an interface that resembles google maps. For a radio planner it then becomes quite obvious that something is amiss if the tower suddenly has extended reach, but nobody installed it. Doing a cell tower hijacking is therefore quite risky unless you devise tactics to work around it.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Putin (Russia's President) said Snowden didn't reveal anything they didn't already know. Wikileaks made the intercept/tapping industry public knowledge back in 2011, but it was pushed under the rug. World governments were well aware of the snooping before these leaks. 

Tech giants are given gag orders by federal courts (and the order might only name the board or just 1 individual at the company) to give federal authorities access to their data, shut down all services, or go to federal prison.  If you talk about the gag order, even to a spouse, you guessed it- prison.

Remember the blog post from Google's CTO after the PRISM program got revealed? He was like "this is bonkers, nothing has ever come across my desk to hint at government snooping.."

Yeah, that's because the CTO was too far down the food chain and wasn't necessary to include in the gag order.  

Anyways, it's sad that we've likely made major breakthroughs in mathematics (mysteries behind primes) that will be kept secret in the name of "national security".
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: 1.  A lot of this is watching the data that moves from server to server, not the server itself.  For example, someone cannot open your home mailbox to look at a postcard you got, but they can sneak a peak when you move it from the mailbox to your home.

2. If they did hack a server, they had a program that kept poking around to see if it was protected.  "If a server looks like it has a strong firewall, check if they have this other program installed, and maybe we can utilize this known exploit.  If we can't, ignore this server and move along."  Using this method, protected servers won't be touched or raise an alarm, and unprotected servers won't know what's happening either way.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Because you are wrong, they all knew about it.  In fact, this is probably why China is hacking us so aggressively.  They have already caught us with our hand in their cookie jar.  

The tech. companies make money selling your personal information.  You are the product and the government is one of their best customers.  In fact, the Google execs have a working relationship with the pentagon (which included selling them cheap jet fuel).  Their bleating about privacy and surveillance programs is just a smokescreen.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: My dad worked for IBM in the eighties, setting up computer systems in almost every non-communist country at the time. By the time I was seven I had traveled to most of these countries. 
The one rule of creating systems is always have a back door in. This way, no matter how bad it gets jacked up by the end-users, you can always get in and 'fix' whatever is broken.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: The USA doesn't hack systems. it controls a significant amount of the wires that the data travels over. they force all the data to go through their servers, make a copy of it as it goes across the wires, and then passes the original data on seamlessly. most data is not scrambled (encrypted) as it goes over the wires so it is easily readable by any computer.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: it's politics and theater.

they knew, but it wasn't public knowledge so they kept it quiet.  now that snowden made it public, to protect their own approval ratings world leaders have to throw some stones at POTUS.

its just a play.  wwe.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Even though /u/jeansfrog covered most of it, are you really implying all nation's are of equal strength.

I'd say USA,Russia and China, maybe the BR's could easily hack other nations because they are the top.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: They are aware, it's just that most countries have laws making it illegal to spy on their citizens, so they spy on each other and then share the info.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: The US were hacking computer systems along with UK, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. They all worked together so I guess they did well covering each others tracks up
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: They kinda [were](_URL_3_). The expert in this case was likely [killed](_URL_3_).

There was a similar case in [Italy](_URL_3_), where experts were killed too.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: The usa government has been recording your emails, texts, and phone calls for 10+ years. Did you know without someone telling you?
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: Well, in Germany CCC made a press release that cellphones seem to drop to 2G around any US embassy buildings.
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: FYI, most likely the blackberry wasn't hacked. Blackberry security held, her personal phone might have been though.

_URL_4_
question: How has no country been aware of the US hacking their systems?I really just don't get this. How can these massive technological companies and international powers not have had any inclination that their telephones and computers were being hacked? answer: The question is, do these countries want to be aware?
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Adam and Eves first assignment as a couple from God was to fill the earth with a human family (Genesis 1:28). Clearly they would have had to populate to a certain point before things could be different. But it's worth noting that they likely weren't susceptible to disease until they acted rebelliously and decided to be independent from Him. 

A while later In Moses' day incest would have been a very bad idea. In the Mosaic Law (Leviticus 18:6-17 if you feel like taking a look) God told the Israelites to put the kibosh on it.

Edit: Downvotes? You can disagree but I think I'm just answering the question...
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Incestuous sins are identified in Leviticus 18.  Prior to this, there was no prohibition and it was extremely common for people to be married to close relatives, especially cousins.  The key to understanding the change is verse 3.  The Israelites are told to not live in the same way that the people in Egypt and the people in Canaan live.  God is setting them apart from the rest of the world.  Throughout the Old Testament law, the desire of God that the Israelites be a separate people is repeated.  

Christians comply with much of the Old Testament law in order to achieve the same "separateness".  The point is to live a life that is different from the lives of others.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: It depends on the Christian.

Those who believe that every single word in the Bible is literally true exactly as written really do have a problem explaining it. In my experience, though, such people have rarely actually read much of the Bible.

Mainstream Christian denominations usually treat Genesis as allegory or parable: it's not literally true at all. The story of Adam and Eve is not at all about how the first humans were created, but is in fact about relationships and the responsibility that comes with knowledge.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: There is a belief that Adam and Eve were the only people in the world at the time. Jump forward to when their son Cain kills their other son Able. God punishes Cain by banishing him to the wilderness and basically making him a drifter. Cain pleads with God that this was too much, because men will surely kill him, these "others" had to be already there at this time and they were not Adam and Eve's children. Just because they were the first, doesn't mean they were the only ones created at the time.

Edited to to too. P.S. phones are hard, sorry.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: 1. The bible is full of metaphors.    
2. The bible says Adam and Eve were the first humans, not the only humans.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I am a Christian, and while there are *mannyyyy* people who believe that Adam and Eve were the first two literal people. But I have a different belief on that. Adam means mankind and Eve means the beginning of something. 

God created mankind, and through Eve he created the beginning of the future of mankind because all people are born through women. There comes a certain point in the Bible where when they talk about a person, they are literally talking about one person (Noah, Abraham, etc) but there are quite a few instances where I believe the name of a person is a representation of a group of people. 

You also see how the descendants of Adam run into civilizations (Egypt, etc.) when they dont even have an established area. Adam even had a descendant with the name Israel. There are 12 descendants of Adam with the name of one of the 12 tribes of Israel. These names are the representation of a group, not one person. Adam was God's creation of his chosen people. Israel is the descendant of Adam, in name, and the 12 descendants are the 12 tribes of Israel, not literally one person. 

Edit: also, this is backed up I believe by many things. God was not a God of mankind, only until Jesus' neared death did that change, which is why Christianity is spread throughout humanity but Judaism isn't because Judaism is a religion for Israelites and through Jesus God made it available for all of humanity. He was a God of the descendants of Adam. The bible uses metaphorical people all the time as well. Some literalists always say, the earth is 6,000 years old by genealogy. No, the history of the Israelites is that old.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: If you accept the Genesis account as literal and examine it in light of modern science and genetics, the chronology makes some sense.

I. Adam and Eve are created with all genetic material possible for humans. This means a middling skin tone, probably brown eyes, "average" hair and hair texture, and so on. ALTERNATE POSSIBILITY: Genetic alleles, and the idea of variability, may not have come into effect until after the Fall, or after the Flood (same time as the Tower of Babel). 

II. This extremely high genetic variety continues to exist (although it's being broken down) for several generations, possibly up until the time of Noah.

III. After the flood, the genetic variety gradually "leaves" with each successive generation. Tribes and populations start to form, each with their own unique sets of genetic characteristics. Within these tribes, families exist, with even more concentrated sets of genetics.

IV. By the time Leviticus is written (probably by Moses), genetic variety is almost nonexistent on an individual level. Incest is forbidden because it increases the risk of rare diseases and deformities: something that's been recently played out in Amish populations (PA, OH, elsewhere) and the Ashkenazi Jewish population. 

TL;DR Close relations marrying is bad for genetics, but it may not have always been that way.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Why do you say Christians? Genesis is a Jew thing too.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: There were other humans on Earth when the killer son leaves. It litterally says so in the bible. An it's like in the first chapter.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Question, why are most old testament questions directed to Christian and not Jews? Considering most Christians believe the old ways have been done away.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I can't be the only person that knows this.

"Genesis 6:4 The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of man and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown."

These folks are what you'd call fallen angels.

These stories should still be regarded in the metaphorical sense but still, it's all there and it's explained. No incest in the Garden of Eden.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Leviticus 18:6 No one is to approach any close relative to have sexual relations. I am the Lord.

7 Do not dishonor your father by having sexual relations with your mother. She is your mother; do not have relations with her.

8 Do not have sexual relations with your fathers wife; that would dishonor your father.

9 Do not have sexual relations with your sister, either your fathers daughter or your mothers daughter, whether she was born in the same home or elsewhere.

10 Do not have sexual relations with your sons daughter or your daughters daughter; that would dishonor you.

11 Do not have sexual relations with the daughter of your fathers wife, born to your father; she is your sister.

12 Do not have sexual relations with your fathers sister; she is your fathers close relative.

13 Do not have sexual relations with your mothers sister, because she is your mothers close relative.

14 Do not dishonor your fathers brother by approaching his wife to have sexual relations; she is your aunt.

15 Do not have sexual relations with your daughter-in-law. She is your sons wife; do not have relations with her.

16 Do not have sexual relations with your brothers wife; that would dishonor your brother.

17 Do not have sexual relations with both a woman and her daughter. Do not have sexual relations with either her sons daughter or her daughters daughter; they are her close relatives. That is wickedness.

18 Do not take your wifes sister as a rival wife and have sexual relations with her while your wife is living.

19 Do not approach a woman to have sexual relations during the uncleanness of her monthly period.

20 Do not have sexual relations with your neighbors wife and defile yourself with her."
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Genesis was written to unite the tribes of Israel by giving them an origin narrative. It's important to look past the stories and see the meaning they are trying to get across. In this case, it's to unite all the tribes under Moses and the law. 

The purpose is not to give a universal creation story. Adam and Eve didn't populate the world but rather they are the people from which the Israelites came from.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: **The story of Adam and Eve has only been considered to be a literal story since around the 1750s. Before then, no Christian church took it literally.**

I am unsure about Jewish groups, perhaps someone Jewish could cut in on that.

Adam represented mankind. Eve represented life. [Edit: Something very strange happened when I posted this. Oh well.] Life and adversity combined to teach us the meaning of good and evil.

The development of a literal view of the bible only came about after Christianity encountered Islam, and is something that certain Christians have attempted to steal from Islam, ineffectively, and without much understanding. 

If you see Adam and Eve as a metaphor, and look at it in depth, it makes a hell of a lot more sense than as a literal creation myth.

The same thing is true about Cain and Abel, which at its core, is actually a story about the Agricultural Revolution. Abel, the hunter-gatherer and herdsman, is murdered by his brother, Cain, the farmer. 

At the time the story was written, most ancient Hebrews were herdsmen, and nomadic, and came into regular conflict with the more settled, agrarian societies. 

Adam and eve, honestly, is a story of evolution. Once, humans were animals, they understood only what animals understood, and they had no moral responsibilities. But when they learned the difference between right and wrong, and became more than animals, they gained a responsibility to do what is right. It isn't possible for an animal to do wrong, because an animal doesn't know right from wrong and cannot be taught. 

We can, ergo, we have moral responsibility.

This is explored rather poorly in a religious myth, but that's still the basic premise. 

Most Christians don't actually talk about this theology, which is a shame. They just scratch the surface of an incredibly deep, incredibly complex scripture, one that isn't easily understood. 

Edit: So to answer your question, nobody used to believe that we were the direct descendants of some dude named Adam and some gal named Eve. Because that's insane.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I had the same question one time for a creationist.  His response was that since Adam and Eve were perfect, genetically speaking, and the first humans, they didn't have any detrimental mutations in their DNA.  As such, their offspring slowly built up mutations and passed them on to their offspring at an increasing rate through successsive generations.  By the time God frowns down on incest in Leviticus, there are sufficient humans on Earth that incest isn't neccesary and the risk of birth defects from incest are too high.

After he explained this to me, I politely pointed out that that these accumulated mutations form part of the basis of evolution.  He walked away without saying another word.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Also after Lot and his daughters escaped the destruction of their city Lot's daughters believed they were the only humans left on earth. So in order to repopulate the planet they got their father drunk and banged him. People did crazy stuff before they had video games.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The rules on how to be acceptable to God keep changing so why not the rules on incest?

Applying the rules of logic to the Bible is like applying the rules of physics to Harry Potter.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The one I heard is that God made Adam and Eve, the FIRST man and woman. He did not make ONLY Adam and Eve. In other words, he made other humans.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: As far as I know Adam and eve weren't really siblings. Rather, eve was made from one of adam's ribs. So really it wasn't incest. He was just masturbating.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: After Moses led the Hebrews out of Egypt, he recieved commandments.  These commandments were like terms from a contract between God and the Hebrews, guaranteeing good fortune if obeyed.  Within these commandments are the laws against incest.  Technically, I don't know that incest done prior to this commandment, or outside of this group of people could be considered violation of these laws (sin), since they were out of their jurisdiction. 

Fast forward thousands of years to the start of Christianity.  The first Christians were Jewish.  As gentiles were being converted to Christianity, there was a lot of debate as to whether they ought to be circumcised and follow Jewish laws.  Eventually it was determined that the old law no longer applied to those who accepted the teachings of Jesus.  Jesus essentially started a new contract, primarily based on faith rather than a law.  

Of course, murder and theft and the like were a different category of evils that predated the commandments.  Christians would call these moral laws.  How incest fell into the moral category for Christians was likely influenced by cultural and social norms during the time.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: A lot of "laws" in the Bible were written to keep people safe and healthy. Like washing your hands before eating, not eating animals you find dead on the side of the road, and incest because, well, you know what happens. A lot of these laws from preJesus times were struck down by Christians, and Christian are to follow the teachings of Jesus and their conscience when deciding which laws to continue to follow. So the laws are more flexible with Christians and are based more on circumstances, conscience, and culture.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The way that genetics work,humans would not have made it to today if the the Adam and Eve story were true. The remixing of the same DNA within the same gene pool causes severe deformities and other serious health issues that are apparent within the first descendants of incest. The story was made up by men who were goat farmers and sheep hearders. So yeah, there that.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Do Christians treat incest as a sin? I've been a church goer for 23 years and not heard a single anti-incest sermon...

It is however against the law...
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Because very few Christians take the Adam and Eve story literally.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: From what I have learned from my World Religions class, Christianty is a made up religion with its core question: Why would God let Jesus die to the hands of Pagans? Muslims and Jews have an answer to this question and it is that Jesus was not a prophet of the Lord. Christians, completely ignorant of the most logical answer to a supernatural event, set the next 700 years after formulating, and manufacturing fake reasons and misinterpreting  sections of the bible to make themselves feel better about their shitty messiah. So the reason why they treat incest as a sin, though the most logical explanation to the population of the Earth starting with only one male and female, is that it fits their synthetic, unfounded, beliefs and helps them sleep better at night

TL;DR: Christians don't even know why, they just say it to make themselves feel better.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: One of the most amazing things about all of the christians that I know, is the amount and quality of stuff which they believe is in the Bible, but actually isn't....

A piece of english literature, "Paradise Lost", by John Milton, written in the 1600's, is the source of most of the current mythology behind the concepts of "heaven" and "hell" and Satan.  In fact, the very name of "Satan" is only used in one place in the Old Testament, the story of Job, and one place in the New Testament, the stories of Jesus' temptations during his sojourn in the desert after his baptism and before he began teaching.

The whole concepts of heaven and hell were basically invented centuries after Jesus lived, ....by Kings and Princes trying to keep their serfs in line ....
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The bible isn't literal. Adam and Eve represent all of Men and Women as a whole, the apple is Men and Women gaining consciousness of right and wrong, and stop being animals with basic instincts like apes.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: If Adam and Eve are the original bloodline then wouldn't all of us be considered incestuos to some degree?
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Why has no one mentioned Lot's daughters getting him drunk and forcing themselves on him yet? Genesis 19:30-36.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The 1st sin is knowledge. Quite asking questions or to hell with thee
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The people who wrote that book didn't think that far
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Note that the Bible doesn't say there are no other humans at the time Adam and Eve were made. It's very reasonable to interpret them as the first of God's blessed, and not the first people. There could have been other people around. 

If you want to take a kind of pseudo historic approach Adam and Eve could have been the first humans to be really truly human, with sentience, and all that. There would still be other homo sapiens, but they'd be more animal than human. 

Or there was rampant inbreeding going on  in the early years. It's not like it's impossible for siblings to have healthy children. Just discard the ones who aren't and try again. No big problem there.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Christianity is based on the Bible which is the societal guideline for an ancient group of peoples. When you remove all the supernatural "influences" you can see that it was basically a guideline for how to live their lives as best as they could according to the information they had at the time. A big, big part of this was how to best create the ideal situations for their tribe to procreate, get larger in numbers, and survive. As a result you tend to see a lot of behaviors that DON'T result in procreation as not allowed. This is why masturbation, homosexuality, and other acts are not allowed. You can extrapolate this information to incest as well.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: One literalist answer (which I am stating, but don't endorse) is that many of the things described in the early bible - long lifespans, feats of strength, no issues with gene pools from small populations- come from closeness to god. So your early guys like lazarus and noah lived longer and were healthier than our modern population. This probably made good sense in the dark ages, when conditions were increasingly brutal - but the obvious flaw is that at some point it troughed - lifespan and health stopped falling and started climbing. I have heard 'Merican fundies attribute that to the Godly world leadership of the US. Growing up in the south was terrifying.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Creation stories are not real to all Christians. They are lessons. Extremists take things out of context. It is the spirit of the word not the literal meaning. I don't go to church and I know this. Look at some asians that families would inbreed because their families where like gods and everyone else was lower than them. Same thing with all races really. Eventually we are all meant to mix. Everyone on an isolated island stuck there for a thousand years are going to be really closely related. On the incest topic people have know for a long time you get defects when you do this.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The Book of Genesis is supposed to be the Christian (and Jewish, and Islamic) world origin story, like those of the Greek and Egyptians. Really, Christians aren't supposed to believe them to be true since they were just made to explain the origin of the world and to fit in with the other cultures of the time, and we know better now. Those who actually believe them, even with the pope justifying evolution, probably aren't wise enough to realize the incestuous content.

Plus, Cain gets with his sister, a character who isn't even mentioned until then, so it's not like it's well written.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: At the end of the first chapter of Genesis God says, "Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness," then he told the to be fruitful and multiply. Chapter one says nothing of Adam or Eve, they first show up in chapter two. The I bible says that there are other people on the earth,  Cain was sent off and settled in another land where he got a wife and had children.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I love how many differing explanations there are. In particular, from people who seem to be speaking from a position of faith, yet all of them have different ideas or interpretations. Yet if you mention this incongruity to someone of faith, they will act as there can be no possibly misinterpretation because it is the word of god and god would not allow that.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Correct me if I'm wrong, but aren't there several instances in Genesis of brothers and sisters marrying each other, and it being OK? It seems to only become a problem later on in the Old Testament, and by the New Testament it's totally taboo.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: More importantly, the lack of explanation as to where Cain and Abel's wives came from.  It is never brought up, but no explanation is given as to their origin.  They just appeared one day.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I think you'll find the answer in biology. Incest does not promote healthy breeding. My guess is it has nothing to do with biblical teachings.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: It's difficult to build a civilization of unhealthy inbred people, and yet, it's worked for the British Monarchy...
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Don't forget Adam's 1st wife, Lilith...that whore.  _URL_0_
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: When humans were made, they were perfect. Perfect genetic code and perfect bodies. When they had sinned their bodies were no longer perfect and were subject to flaws.


Even though Adam and Eve's bodies were flawed, they were just the start of the human race and the flaws that they had were most likely very few and not very similar. 


As two partners have children more genetic mutations are made and generations may share the same problems as their parents. Because Adam and Eve had very little flaws, it didn't matter as much at that time or even for many generations to "do" incest. It was actually required for them to as there was no one else to mate with to populate the world. 


As time went on, mutations grew larger and affected bodies more to where you could no longer mate with a sibling or very close relative as the mutations were more prone to cause a defect, just like they do now only on a smaller scale.


Incest is treated as a sin now as precautionary to mankind. You can see today the affects of incest and they terrible. You can even see another great example of genetic mutations between people by looking at the people from Small People Big World. Because they shared those mutated genes, their offspring was very likely to have the mutation, and they did.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Major religions exist to provide social utility. Don't steal from your neighbor, don't kill, treat others as you want to be treated, etc, all have a social utility to them. If the vast majority of the people in a community believe in the same basic social tenets taught by their religion, then that is the groundwork for a functioning society. Most of the stories of the bible are there as kind of supporting examples about why we need to behave the way the bible tells us, or to explain how things got to be the way they are. Kind of like aesop's fables.

Incest is bad because it greatly increases the risk of genetic disorders and raises suspectability to diseases in the offspring. So, there is a Social Utility in telling people not to sleep with their relatives.

It contradicts with the idea of Adam and Eve being the first humans because that is simply a creation story and doesn't apply to how you are supposed to live your life day to day. It's supposed to inspire awe and gratitude toward God for creating everything, including people, thus binding you to worship Him and thus follow the basic social guidelines outlined in the rest of the Bible.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Based on the responses, it seems like incest was established as sin in Leviticus. Forgive me if I'm mistaken, but I thought that Leviticus is generally considered to be the strange part of the Old Testament, where there's all that stuff like, do not cut/shave your hair, do not wear clothing made of fabric blends, people who have flat noses, or are blind or lame, cannot go to an altar of God, and that we should be stoning to death people who claim to be psychics.


The only other book that seems to have anything to say about incest as a sin is Deuteronomy, also from the Old Testament. That one has rules like, kill anyone who follows a different religion, and debts are waived after 7 years.


I don't know a huge amount about religion in general, so hopefully someone can correct me if I'm wrong, but I thought that when the New Testament came out, it was made to replace the Old one, in a sense. So are the laws in Leviticus and Deuteronomy supposed to be observed by Christians still?


I'm not trying to start any flame wars, just genuinely curious about what it all means and how it all works :)
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Genesis 6 says that angels came to the world and slept with human women and made Giants. They would account for a large part of the population before Noahs flood. If you beleive every thing Genesis say like I do do you think the people mentioned at the end could have a connection to the heroes of Greek Mythology and that of other civilizations of the time?

Genesis 6 New International Version (NIV)

Wickedness in the World
6 When human beings began to increase in number on the earth and daughters were born to them, 2 the sons of God saw that the daughters of humans were beautiful, and they married any of them they chose. 3 Then the Lord said, My Spirit will not contend with[a] humans forever, for they are mortal[b]; their days will be a hundred and twenty years.

4 The Nephilim were on the earth in those daysand also afterwardwhen the sons of God went to the daughters of humans and had children by them. They were the heroes of old, men of renown.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I have a theory I have rolling around in my head that Adam and Eve had mostly heterogeneous genes, and had none of the genes that cause defects. Their children would have a wide variety of gene expressions, and could safely reproduce with each other without risking genetic defects. Their grandchildren would have very low risk of genetic defects, their great-grandchildren would have slightly higher risk, etc. Over the 7000 or so years (depending on who you ask) since The Fall, random gene mutation would introduce many of the genetic problems that we see today. For similar reasons, natural lifespans would dwindle from ~900 years to ~45 over the generations.

Of course, this is just my theory as to how we went from safely marrying siblings and living for centuries to incest being a problem and humans only living to their 80s and 90s with the help of modern medicine.

EDIT: now that I've read through more of the comments, it seems I'm not the only one with this theory. Not by a long shot.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The reason incest is bad is because there are many congenital diseases that only come about when recessive genes are active and that requires both parents to carry the same gene.  So two people from the same family are likely to have a more similar genetic makeup and to pass on two copies of the recessive gene to their children.

Adam and Eve were formed as perfect human beings by God.  So one can assume they had no bad genes at all.  So inbreeding at this stage wouldn't have been a problem since there were no disease-causing genes.

So to recap, the bible says were created as perfect and are getting progressively worse with each generation taking us farther from that perfection, while evolution says we started as nothing more than mud and each generation got very slowly better until we arrived at our present state today.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The Quran gives specific rules regarding incest, which prohibit a man from marrying or having sexual relationships with:

* his father's wife, his mother, or stepmother, his mother-in-law, a woman from whom he has nursed, even the children of this woman.
* either parent's sister (aunt)
* his sister, his half sister, a woman who has nursed from the same woman as he, his sister-in-law (wife's sister) while still married. Half relations are as sacred as are the full relations.
* his niece (child of sibling)
* his daughter, his stepdaughter (if the marriage to her mother had been consummated), his daughter-in-law.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Personally i dont believe in the story of adam and eve. But the reason for incest being labeled a sin would probably be for practical reasons. If too much inbreeding happens, then negative genetic mutations are bound to occur that jeaopordize the familys future generations. The people who figured this out probably figured it would be easier to call it a sin than to explain biology to uneducated peasants. Its the same reason why its forbidden jews to eat meat from certain "impure" animals or shellfish, because back then people were getting sick off them.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The idea about incest in the bible is that it's a sin because it's damaging to the gene pool. Christians believe that 6,000 or so years ago that incest didn't cause genetic defects the way it does now. Part of it is pollution. That's something that was told me to me when I was in church in high school that pollution is a big cause of genetic defects as a result of incest, I don't know why.

Bottom line it's a sin now because it's unhealthy.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I think it's because, when we were evolving and our intellect was gradually increasing, we saw that when two closely blood related family members produced children, that the children were deformed/died easily. So they chalked it up to "My children have died early, thus God must have said that this is bad." Similar to "Men are stronger, men hunt, thus men must be the superior sex." which became "God must have made women to serve man" which got drilled into most religions.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Well, heres my theory on the subject: genetics. In the beginning God created two perfect humans. There wasn't a single flaw in them. However, once they ate the forbidden fruit, their DNA started to become susceptible to time and decay, so while it was fine for several generations to reproduce with themselves, after a while problems would start developing with the offspring. Hence the reason God told them to quit it.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I was raised in the church, and a lot of people believe they had intercourse with angels. This supposedly occasionaly spawned giants as well.

Goes to show how far christians will go to defend their religion.

Especially since moses wrote the book of genesis. It was supposedly a vision from god.

Which is odd since the flood and ark is coppied from the epic of Gilgamesh
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: It's funny how so many different voices keep trying to use Christian Scripture to explain this question. The truth is much simpler. For a Religion to propagate, the Religous have to remain healthy. The effects of incest cripple family-lines. Having no family to pass your Religion down to prevents the propagation of Religion. So, make it a "sin" in order to "incentivize" followers into behaving appropriately.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Adam and Eve had two sons - Cain and Abel.  
  
Cain killed Abel.  
  
Cain and his wife had children.  
  
Question: Where did Cains wife come from?  
  
When posing this question to Christians, I get everything from "It's a story to explain creation" to "There were nearby villages that weren't mentioned" to "Eve" to "Adam and Eve had a daughter that wasn't mentioned" to "... Good question..."
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Adam and eve era only had a handful of human beings and it is thought in the religious community that the DNA of Adam and the first few generations was pretty much perfect so there weren't issues in kids with your siblings. As time has gone on, the ability to retain this has been lost.
Think of how many people in the 50's has asthma?
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: No where in the christian bible does it say Adam and Eve were the first man and women, they were how ever the first of the blessed blood line of the savior Jesus Christ. When their son was banished, he found a wife and had children. 

God created all things, and then he created Adam and Eve for a specific purpose.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Is it just me or are most of the responses not at all close to explaining something simply like you would to a 5 year old? Most of these explanations are pretty detailed and complicated.. 
My answer? I don't know why Christians specifically believe incest is a sin but it's pretty common knowledge you shouldn't boink your blood relatives...
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The issue is, the rules of the bible are for the jews, not the gentiles though they vehemently try to act like they are part of that group going so far as to circumcise their sons as if God might mistake them for one of the chosen. That's some sad shit right there.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Just because a behavior is in the bible doesn't mean God condones it. Lord knows there are plenty of examples of terrible things done at the hands of the "good" people in the bible. It is almost like they weren't perfect...as if they were just like us, capable of good or evil.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Because you get genetic diseases in offspring from such unions, and the religion is just tacked on. And although people didn't know about genes they certainly knew that inbreeding causes such issues.

The better question is why christians are so against polygamy, because all the famous biblical characters had several wives.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Lot, on his death bed was raped by his daughters, and their offspring was abominable. thats why judeo christians treat incest as a sin. More likely incest became a sin as people realized that it needed to be discouraged to prevent deformation, retardation, and Joffreys.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I'm pretty sure the children of Adam and Eve left their homes and went out to different cities where there were people. I don't think A & E were the only created people, just the first and the start of the lineage of Jesus.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Incest is a taboo found in nearly every culture on the planet; it isn't strictly a religious ideology. An incest taboo keeps degenerate/recessed genes out of the gene pool and by that, helps maintain a healthy, functioning society(no matter how small).
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I asked a similar question in my Christianity class (religious school).  
The answer was,  
 >  "Well Adam and Eve were 'so' genetically pure that they couldn't/wouldn't transfer any genetic weaknesses to their children."  

Part of the reason I'm no longer religious.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Well if you think of the first human pair.  Eve was produced from Adam. Adam's rib was used to form or make Eve.  So Adam had sex with himself to reproduce. Woman was made from man.  It's kinda freaky.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: There is no incest in the Adam and Eve story. Their sons Abel  &  Seth marry wives, but the Bible doesn't say those wives are descended from Adam  &  Eve. They just show up out of nowhere.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Your first mistake is in your assumption that any sense is to be found in a book based on an iron-age belief system, written and re-written over thousands of years by authors suffering from superstitious mindsets.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Genesis doesn't really mention some of the details. In the beginning there was Adam, Eve, Cain, and Abel then all of a sudden there are other people and there is no mention where they came from.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: If you want to look at it scientifically, it would be an evolutionary advantage to not practice any form of incest, for it promotes genetic diversity to have the most varies pool of genetics possible.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Its a sin because its in a story book that billions of people seem to follow for fear of been sent to a "hell"

seems like some people take story time a little to far
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I don't know that I've ever heard any Christian condemnation of incest as a particular sin.. Although all anyone has to do is look at the royal families of Europe to show that it is.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Also worth noting. Most Christians don't take the Bible story of creation literally. That's reserved for the hardcore groups. Most of us just see it as a nice story.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Also, priests and pastors admit some stories in the bible are fictitious and just meant to teach a lesson. There are many parables throughout the bible.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Well, since Eve came from the rib of Adam, when Adam makes love with her, it's not so much incest as it is masturbation...?
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I would lile to add that adam and eves kids goes from their parents and to the closest populated area to find wifes
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Someone probably noticed at some point that incest can produce some butt ugly children, so they figured God must be condemning it now.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: You're asking people who consider faith (believing without evidence) a virtue. Although a fair question, you won't receive a fair answer.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: I always thought Christians understood Adam and Eve wasn't literal. At least Christians who had a bit of sense to them.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Only a tiny amount of Christians actually believe Adam and Eve were the first humans and populated the earth.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Christians in the deep south sin all the time... at least when there aren't any farm animals available.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: the whole cain and his descendants thing throws a bit of a wrench into this as well
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: The majority of Christians have accepted those stories are made up to represent something else.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: If you read the Bible Closely. There were people there besides Adam and Eve.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: You need to realize that Adam  &  Eve story should not be taken literally.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Because Adam and Eve never existed, you idiot. Christians don't actually believe that.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Everyone treats incest as a sin. That shit's weird as hell, dude.
question: Why do Christians treat incest as a sin? If Adam and Eve populated all of humanity, what in The Bible says that God declared incest as a sin? answer: Because Adam and Eve weren't real. It's not difficult.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Most people are going to tell you that they make their money through ads, and for some people that is where all their money comes from. But for properly run channels, ad revenue normally only accounts for about 10% of the total revenue (this is obviously a very broad generalization, but it's what I've seen consistently). 

As far as ads go, content creators get paid based on something called CPM, aka cost per mille, aka cost per thousand. Their CPM is how much they make for every 1,000 monetised views. If someone is watching with adblock on, their view isn't monetisable. If the video is deemed not advertising friendly, then none of the views will be monetised. The CPM is bassed off of how much advertisers are willing to pay to show an ad on that video, so if you're video is on how to choose the best car insurance, insurance agencies are willing to pay a lot to have their ad on the video, so the CPM will be much higher than if your video is about cheap meals to cook. The CPM is also effected by where your traffic is coming from. If your videos are popular in T1 countries (rich, developed countries who speak English, like the US, Canada, Australia, UK) then your CPM will be much higher than if the traffic is all coming from India and Bangladesh. CPM can vary so much that there really is no limit to how high or low it can go, but the average CPM will be around the $1 - $2.50 mark. Unfortunately CPM is on the decline, and we have been seeing a steady drop in CPM over the last few years. 

Smart creators diversify their income streams with things like Patreon, affiliate marketing, sponsorship's, product placement, and selling physical or digital goods (like clothes, or books). To a smart creator, these things can make up 90%+ of their revenue, and if they aren't utilizing them, they are leaving money on the table. Gone are the days where you could just put a video up and make decent money. 

I've seen people with 60,000 subscribers making $200,000+ a year from their social media, or people with 1,000,000+ subscribers making less than $80,000 a year. If you're smart and business savvy, you can make a lot of money from a small audience. But if you neglect the business side and just want to be a creator, then chances are you'll struggle to make money.  

As a small case study, let's look at Geek and Sundry's twitch, which has had most of it's success thanks to a live stream of D & D called Critical Role. In about 2 years they have grown to 35,000 paying subscribers, each of these subscribers pay $5 a month, which means they are bringing in over $2,000,000 a year just in subscription fees. That's before the 2 sponsorships they have, and before all the youtube ad revenue, and before all the merchandising. 

I've got 10 years experience with online marketing, mostly social media, and am planning on launching a big YT channel within the next 4 months, so feel free to ask any questions.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Youtuber here. 160,000 subscribers and 15.9 million total views. Also affiliated with YouTuber "DemolitionRanch" who has 2.9M subscribers at the moment.

Ad revenue is near $180 for every 100,000 views you get. At some points in the year, like December, you get much more money-per-view because of something called CPM. CPM is basically the number that is decided by the amount of advertisers trying to buy ad space on youtube. In months like December, where every advertiser is running hundreds of ads, i get somewhere around 4X revenue during that period, no matter my views.

I also like to work with companies to do brand deals / sponsorships. They'll pay you to put sponsored content in your video. Usually you're approached by about 10 companies a week (through email) to see if you're interested in being sponsored by them, so there's a HUGE market there. 

Amazon associates is a very easy way to basically make passive income as well. I put all of my computer's specifications/parts in my descriptions of my videos with amazon links to those specific parts. Amazon pays me a percentage of any purchase made after the user clicked on those links. So if a person wanted to buy the camera I use, they could go to amazon through my custom URL and purchase it, and because i brought them to amazon, i get a small cut of it.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I'm a small educational YouTuber, so I can't promise that this covers all the bases, but I can give you an idea of how we make money.  There are really four or five revenue streams, and the composition differs depending on the creator.

1.  YouTube pre-roll, mid-roll, and text ads.
These are the ads that you typically think of when you think of YouTube ads.  The ones you can skip.  Unless you get millions of views, this is not going to be a major source of revenue.  The CPM (cost per one thousand views) is just too low usually.  It ranges from $1-4 dollars per thousand views, and is way more beneficial to YouTube than to YouTubers.

2.  Baked-in ads.  Did one of your favorite creators recommend SquareSpace or Audible to you?  They got paid for that.  Depending on your viewership and engagement, an ad spot like this can range from several thousand dollars to several hundred.  This is often a major revenue stream for people.

3.  Patreon.  It is a service where fans pledge a monthly donation for benefits or merchandise.  Depending on the creator this can be almost all of their revenue (some turn off ads as a Patreon goal) or literally none of it (they don't have a Patreon).  Some creators get upwards of $20,000 dollars a month off of Patreon (TeamFourStar makes $11,000 a month, CGPGrey makes $18,000 per video) but most successful YouTubers get between $500 - $2000 a month
 
4.  Online store merchandise.  Just like it sounds, people buying shirts, mugs, etc.  This is way too variable of a revenue stream for me to summarize.

5.  Only very specific types of YouTubers who are well-respected and  famous get this, but events and guest appearance fees.  Some YouTubers host shows, tours, and conferences (Nerdcon, Vidcon, RTX, etc.). For example, Michael from vsauce is touring with Adam Savage from myth busters.  Ticket sales and merch at these events can be a great source of revenue.

There might be other minor money makers, but these are the big five at least.  Being a YouTuber is hard, but some of the really top tier guys are multi-millionaires from it.  It all depends on how smart of a businessperson you are, and how engaged your audience is (and how large it is).  I hope this gave you an overview of the revenue sources available to YouTubers.  There are sites that estimate how much YouTubers make, but it is all guesswork usually.

Edit: another source of revenue that I would wrap into #1 is YouTube Red.  Based on how many Red viewers you have, you get paid.  It is weird, complicated, and difficult to ELI5.  YouTube also handpicks some creators to make YouTube Red Originals, and they pay for parts of production and I assume pay those creators fairly handsomely.

Edit 2: Grey just made $18,000 dollars as I was discussing his income.

Edit 3: Amazon Affiliate links also make some YouTubers money as /u/lionheart2189 mentioned below.  It is usually not that significant unless you review products on your channel.  I don't, and don't chat with any YouTubers who do, so I didn't think of it right away.  Linus Media is an example of a company that makes a large part of their revenue through this method.  (LinusTechTips, Techquickie, etc.)

Edit 4: shameless self promotion _URL_0_
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I get about $1000 to $1500 per month, just off adds. 

I'm a musician, so not only do I get paid for music videos I uploaded, I also get paid when anybody else uses my song in their videos. YouTube has a bit of code that listens to all the videos, and when it hears my music, it associates that video with me, and gives me a share of the revenue.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: There are quite a few good answers in here regarding ad revenue but they're somewhat difficult to follow in my opinion. For the sake of making things easier to understand, let's say we have a monetized video that currently has precisely 100,000 views.

***
## Step 1. CPM
To start, a company is running an advertisement campaign and they are paying $6.00 for their advertisement to be shown 1,000 times, and another company is paying $5.67, and another is paying $6.13. The average of this is called "CPM." CPM stands for Cost Per Mille, "Mille" meaning thousand. CPM generally means how much you are paid for showing people's advertisements 1,000 times.(Note: This changes *all* the time, because advertisers will pay more for their ads to be shown first. Take November or December for example, where ad rates are their highest.) Right this instant, for my channel, [CPM seems to be $6.09.](_URL_3_) This is pretty normal.

## Step 2. Monetized Views
Now let's get back to the video with 100,000 views. Just because the video has been seen 100,000 times doesn't mean an advertisement has been shown 100,000 times. People have adblock, or sometimes it just doesn't show an ad. When an advertisement is shown, it is considered a "monetized view" in the analytics page of your channel. Generally, monetized views are about a third of the amount of video views. My channel, for having [45,129,607 views,](_URL_3_) has had [15,100,731](_URL_3_) monetized views. With this same ratio, a video with 100,000 views might have around 33,000 monetized views.

## Step 3. Combining the Two
At this point is where we combine CPM and monetized views. With the CPM (cost per thousand monetized views) currently at $6.09, and a video with 33,000 *monetized* views, that means the video has earned $200.97. BUT, YouTube has to take their share, of course, so they take their half, and you're left with **$100.48 earned from a video with 100,000 views.**

**This is also incredibly specific and can be different for other people. Different genres have different advertisements, ad rates are different every month, etc. but you get the general idea.*

* Source: YouTuber with over 250k subs and 45M views.

Edit: formatting
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I am the dad that posted the viral video, David After Dentist, in 2009. 

We also make money through Adsense.  However,  we also do licensing deals with different companies around the world. Some are brands and some are clips shows mostly in Europe and Australia.

Another new revenue stream is through DRM (Digital Rights Management) This was put in place to combat the blatant piracy of Intellectual Property on Youtube. This system allows us to take down stolen videos or choose to leave them up and monetize them. We have don't both.

It amazes me that we are still making some money 8 years later. We hope to be able to continue and help pay for college for both David and his brother. The revenue has been used to pay for private school for both boys.

BTW, David is 16 years old and a sophomore in high school.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: There are many ways that YouTubers make money. This is mostly through ads, which is how Google/YouTube make their money, and they give some to the YouTuber. Once you reach a certain level then companies (called partners I believe) will start contacting you to be apart of their network, like the Machinima Network, and then they can help build your channel and you get a piece of the money, the partners make theirs and then YouTube gets theirs as well. These partners can also help you hook up with larger YouTubers for collabs which helps push traffic as well. They also do brand deals where if you create content for video games then video game companies will ask you to do some work for money and a copy of the game or they will give you a copy of the game and a bunch of keys to you so you can spread the word. There is a belief that you get money from likes, subscribers, and views. I do not think that is the case anymore (it was a few years ago). I'm sure there is some info I'm missing and perhaps my stuff is out of date but from what I've heard from creators this is mostly how it goes. 

The amount of money you can make from YouTube can be a substantial amount, upwards of millions if you're popular. Pewdiepie (the most popular on YouTube) for example, and according to a GameSpot article, made $7.5 million in 2014. Where as the YouTube network of channels called Yogscast, has about $10.75 million in revenue last year, but also has several channels associated with it and they have 68 people who work there.

Long story short: Ads are what make the Internet world go round.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I don't have a lot of subscribers (around 7,500), but have a total of [11.5M+ video views](_URL_4_). From those views, I've made around $12,000 to $15,000 in total.

There are two ways I make money:

1. Ads. Everybody claims they make 1-2$/1000 views. This isn't accurate for most people. The average is 0.80$/1000 views.

2. Licensing. This is when companies license a video you created. They will usually pay a lump sum of 100-250$ USD for video rights.

Other ways:

3. Product Placement. Simple enough. A company will pay a YouTuber to show a product in their video. Ex: Pepsi could pay PewDiePie $20K to drink a Pepsi in his video. 

4. Merchandise Store. If you're large enough that you have dedicated fans, these fans will buy your merch.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: If you don't get partnerships/sponsorships, you make next to nothing. I've made about $1-$2 per 1,000 views on my most popular videos. That may sound like a lot for a video with 5M+ views, but how long does that $5,000 worth of views to happen? Unless you're turning out videos every week that get huge view counts every time (which doesn't happen), sponsorships/donations(patreon) are almost always necessary to make a livable wage. 

Source: I make ~$250/mo from a few huge videos I made. Nerves videos get me $5 if I'm lucky.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Around $1,000 per 1M views. Paid Endorsements. Affiliate offers. Renting their pixel traffic.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Most other people have covered the actual question but I just want to add somethings about the steps to get there. 


I write for a lot of channels, mainly fact lists. Some are the biggest around and others are just starting out. From what I've seen there are three main routes to making a living. 

1) Have a niche audience. Just make sure that the niche you choose is gaming. Or perhaps children. Or gaming children. Or gay, Ming children - they are ancient, rare and highly prized.


2) Pure Creativity. Youtube lets you make shows that would never make it on TV. Likewise, most middling TV shows would die a cold and lonely death if they were exclusively youtube. For me the best examples of this are:


-Don't Hug Me I'm Scared 


- You Suck At Cooking 


- Internet Comment Etiquette With Eric 


- exurb1a



They will likely survive through Patreon. I really care about these shows so I absolutely want to help them make more content (Don't Hug me is done and dusted sadly. But the wit and the brilliant editing is what makes these work. This shit is very hard to do. 

3) Facts. We love facts, they are the fuel that our inane bullshit lives on. Sometimes this is really high level like Numberphile or TomScott. But mostly it's not; it's the lowest common denominator stuff like The Richest. It's addictive, it's cheap to make and they can churn it out every day. 

So, to finish on something vaguely like a conclusion. If you're really creative then just run wild and free. But if you want to have a go yourself, make list style top 10 videos as cheaply and as often as you can. You need a big slice of luck. If you see a new one get big, it's probably owned by one of the other big channels - they pour money into promoting their new channels. The new channels are often exactly the same as their old channels.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I am a YouTuber from Germany. There are several revenue streams:

- Google Adsense: YouTube pays 55% of all of the revenue that your channel creates with the preroll ads in front of your videos etc. (unless you have adblock ;((
This usually amounts to about 1/$1 per 1000 Views but can be higher if you make longer videos (above 10min you can put a lot more ads in) - or if you have content that is easy for specific advertisers to target (like a Gaming, Beauty or Film channel), its also higher in December, because brands advertise more for Christmas. 

- Brand Deals: "Influencer Marketing" is very popular. Brands will pay big money to sponsor individual videos, series or entire channels. People like Casey Neistat are also actual testimonials for brands like Samsung, like Jonny Depp is for some watch or perfume brand. 
In Germany we are talking up to 80/$80 per 1000 views for a single brand integration for one video. As far as I know, big US-channels can earn a lot more than that.

- Merchandise/Books/Products/Music/Movies/Events - Many YouTubers sell their own T-Shirts or have products that fit their content (your own make-up line as a beauty channel i.e.). Many YouTubers nowadays also try to release songs or sell straight to DVD movies like Grace Helbig, or sell tickets to a standup show etc, work with Netflix or YouTube Red on exclusive Pay-Per-View shows etc.

- Crowdfunding: A lot of more creative channels use platforms like Patreon to fund their videos through audience donations.

- Livestreaming: This is a combination of ad revenue through platforms like Twitch and viewer donations/subscribtions.

I would say these are the most common ones - nowadays many YouTubers have their own companies, providing services for brands or media companies, producing YouTube commercials etc. 
Many YouTubers als get paid to speak at company events about social media or even straight up advice companies about their brands YouTube channels.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: It helps if you're born rich so you have expendable free time, confidence, and income for equipment.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: ALSO in addition to regular ads:

sIn influencer marketing often people get free product and, if they're big enough, with enough solid engagement, they get paid as well. 

This usually ranges from as low as a dollar to $7/1,000 followers.  Another valuation is also estimating an average number of views on a next video, and they pitch back to companies that sponsor them (often these are done so subtly and organically you have no idea that they are even a sponsorship) higher numbers than the companies pitch, so they negotiate.  A nice, round number that works for most pages that get solid engagement is around half a cent per view.  

Ex. Someone with an estimated 20k views on a video will get offered $100, and then the YouTuber and the company initiate a dialogue to see if they can find a place of agreement.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I give you Hank Green (a youtuber) who explains this exact topic nicely. 
_URL_5_
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: The biggest ones get a huge chunk of it from youtube/google's ado service. They negotiate their own separate deals with youtube.

Depending on what their channel is about, they get money from other sponsors. For example game reviewers get paid or given free shit to review certain games, or technology like phones, video cards, etc...

You can make millions if you have a big following. You can also make $100k a year with a medium sized following as well. There's a HUGE pie out there with almost limitless potential for people to get a slice of.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: At the PR firm I work for, we pay "influencers" (sometimes YouTube celebs, sometimes bloggers) lots of money for having certain products or services featured. The caveat is that these influencers should then disclose that they are being sponsored or paid for that content.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: All about the sponsors. Also YouTube has weird rules about releasing how much they make but you can get a general idea from Google search.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I have 100 million + views on YouTube. 350k subs. Advertising revenue is based off of CPM which means per 1000 views. It depends on your content but it's generally abut 2$ per 1k views. Don't forget that many gamers are part of a multi channel network which take up to 40% for small channels. Huge rip off tbh. The MCNs do very little. They do help with some automatic YouTube copyright issues and that's why I use one. Also for a variety of free music to use in my videos. So after YouTube takes 45%. Your MCN takes a cut and you pay your taxes (because the IRS needs their cut). You're actually left with much less than you think. 

Edit - Also to add something else that I haven't really seen anyone mention. I think youtube's algorithms give more money for new subscribers watching your content. When I see large jumps in subscribers, I don't see that many more views, but I do seem to get a boost in CPM that day.

Another thing that many people may not know is that youtube has some really extensive analytics that help you keep track of how well your channel is doing and how much money each individual video makes. It can track ages, genders, location and more, and even tells ME on my analytics page.

I sometimes make sponsored videos which I NEED to call out at the beginning of my video. Those usually pay pretty well, at least more than the average money I would make per video. Some are based off of downloads with tracking links, and often pay pretty well per download. Expecting some whales(high spending users) to download the game and pay a bunch of money to win that game. I only make sponsored content of games I actually enjoy, or I'm at least honest about things I don't like about the game during the video, but I can assume many other youtubers don't really care and make tons of sponsored content lying about it.

A multi channel network(MCN) is a company that you "partner" with, which takes all of your revenue from youtube, and pays you a cut of it. They take anywhere from 0-50%. An MCN is fairly worthless for most youtubers, but with gamers it can help because of so many random youtube copyright issues.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: How much does youtube take when someone donates during a live stream?  It kinda blows my mind when I see people throw $50+ during a stream.  smh.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: YouTuber here, 23+ Million views and almost 130,000 subscribers. Most (if not all) of my YouTube Revenue is generated through ad monetization and CPM. I've had multiple "partnerships" offered to me throughout the years, actually probably over 40+. It's interesting to see how many other individuals run their accounts on make their own revenue. I've considered getting into patreon a bit more seriously, YouTube only does so much after a certain point and it's always advisable not to place all of our "eggs in one basket".
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: What I want to know is, who actually buys YouTuber merch??
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Theres a game journalist called Jim Stirling and he doesn't run any ads (apart from copyright claims forcing him to). 

He mainly uses patreon, _URL_6_. You can see he makes $11k a month from donators. 

This is an alternative to cpm ads.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Finally one I know! youtubers make money from multiple traffics but the biggest is ad revenue as stated numerous times by others, another way they make money is from sponsorship, back a few years ago audible was the big one along with g fuel, ubisoft also does pretty big sponsorships. another way is through merchandising but recently some youtubers have made  money from youtube red (~~scare pewdiepie~~ and paranormal action squad) other channels, more art based make money from patreon which is a way to support your favorite channels

for large companies; predominately rooster teeth they make money from doing their own sponsorships by using their site which precedes youtube, they also make money by doing [commericals for companies](_URL_7_)

hope this kinda helped
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I once thought about really becoming a youtuber. If you have no career you can technically do youtube  &  twitch 24/7 for a living just making $2000 a month with a good enough following. You have to be really dedicated and living cheap though until you become popular. The only way I could ever see myself living a life like this is if I wanted to become a professional gamer or never grew tired of gaming.

I would also try to find sponsors and partners, probably sure way to get your followers to support you without directly giving you money.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: They make money through adds, usually about $3 per 1,000 views. A lot of youtubers hate ab block

The guys with millions of subs are definitely making seven figures. Other youtubers with mid six figure subscribers will make that same amount in money. However, you have to own all the content in the video. If you video a wall but have music in the background that's not yours, you can't make money off it

EDIT: They can also make money through endorsement deals like athletes due
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: $1/1000views through ads (mostly by mobile users cause no adblock)    
Sponsors and/or Affiliate links like Loot Crate and Audible    
Merchandising shirts, posters, mugs, etc     
Patreon (mostly for animators cause of how long each video takes to make)
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I'm curious, do adult themed videos do well? Or will youtube not monetize them?

I'm talking along the lines of a blog regarding sex stuff such as webcamming, sex toy reviews, sex education type videos, and other similar topics.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Why do Youtubers make a 2nd channel if they're  going to get less views? Like I like To Make Stuff or What's inside?
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: i still dont get why youtubers need to be in a network?
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: In the YouTube beauty influencer world, they make money from:
- Google Adsense  &  even more if they become a YouTube partner 
- product affiliate links (often not disclosed as such)
- brand discount codes
- sponsored videos/Instagram posts which the vast majority do not disclose despite the laws requiring them to do so
- product collaborations with brands. This used to be a very rare thing a few years ago, and usually with just no-name online-only brands. Nowadays the bigger influencers are putting out products with mainstream brands that are stocked in stores countrywide. 
- the bigger YTers also get almost all new makeup releases sent to them for free with (usually) no contract to do anything with the products. As a result the bigger youtubers don't even need to put out the cash to review brand new products while smaller youtubers need to wait for the actual release date and buy the products with their own money 
- many of them also get free luxury vacations sponsored by brands
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: There are several ways to make money:

A) Ad Revenue: which can add up quickly. Hell I don't even try and I made some beer money. Millions of views can be decent. However as I have learned from peers, it is a tiny fraction of their revenue. It is where you start, not where you finish.

B) Merchandising: Tee-shirts and stuff are big but you have to have critical mass to pull it off.

C) Patreon: Those I've spoken with said the bulk of their income now is Patreon based. 

D) Premium Services: (Youtube Red, etc) with enough popularity this is an option.

E) Cache: Speaking fees, appearances fees, etc.

The people making big money know how to manage all those points either themselves or staff\coalitions that handle it.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Corporate Ownership

One thing that I don't see addressed, at least not that I see near the top, is that allot of the "popular" YouTube shows are actually owned and funded by recognizable media corporations, like cable networks. The "YouTuber" is actually a contractor or employee of the corporation and is paid a salary or some kind of royalty schedule based on engagement.

The corporation makes it's revenue from the "property" through all the already-listed explanations, ad nauseam.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Lets not forget content ID as well. I'm a music producer so when someone downloads my instrumentals to record a song to and post it on YouTube or use instrumentals in the background of their YouTube video, the system tags it and places ads on the video that I get paid for.

With that combined with my own channel, I make about $700-$800 a month from YouTube. It's easy, passive income.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Advertisements and product placement. Advertisements are less than you would expect, though.

Take two who I like, for example. Lindybeige plugs for _URL_8_ in every video and Hickok45 has an endorsement deal with Federal Premium Ammunition. Popular YouTubers make money by getting paid to talk about or use some company's product in their videos.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: 1) Share of advertising money from ads played before during or after their videos.
2) Product placements
3) Affiliate marketing (promo codes for products or services)
4) Merch store
5) Paid promotional and testimonial videos
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: I'm not gonna ask you to drink Fit-tea, I'm not even gonna tell you to drink it.  i'm gonna demand that you drink Fit-Tea.  How bou dat?
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: TomSka has a nice series of videos explaining it well.

[Ad Revenue](_URL_10_)

[Brand deals](_URL_9_)

[Merchandise](_URL_11_)

Hope that helped.
question: How do popular YouTubers make money?[removed] answer: Is it still going strong it slowly declining?
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Here's a [paper](_URL_0_) that offers one explanation regarding hair: 

 >  We conclude that MC1R is under strong functional constraint in Africa, where any diversion from eumelanin production (black pigmentation) appears to be evolutionarily deleterious. 

The MC1R gene is the only gene we know that sufficiently explains substantial differences in hair color. We know many genes contribute, but this one has been well-studied. According to this paper, different hair colors we see outside of Africa result from a relaxation of mechanisms that keep the gene in a "black pigment" state.

**tldr:** You can think of a gene as a car. It has a gas and brake pedal. Some genetic and/or environmental factors may push-down on one or the other. In the case of MC1R, the brake pedal is eased-off in populations outside of Africa.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Just to bring something new in - Neanderthals bred with the Cro Magnons(what would be, genetically, sub-saharan Africans) that migrated to Europe.  We have DNA evidence.  We also know some Neanderthals had red hair.  Beyond that, there is evolutionary pressure for lighter skin due to the need for Sunlight/Vitamin D. (Inuit populations, with high marine fat diets, and therefore high Vit D intake, maintain a darker complexion.)  Beyond that, you also have sex selective pressures, basically meaning we thought it was prettier and the mutation lucked out.

So it's a combo of those things.  Should also be noted that in addition to Neanderthals, you also had the [Denisovans](_URL_1_).  They interbred as well, seemingly in Asia.  You'll see from Wiki they are DNA related to aboriginal Australians a little.  The only other group on Earth to have blonde hair develop completely separate from Europeans.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Try posting this sort of thing to /r/AskScience instead; you're much more likely to get a legitimate answer over there.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Surprisingly, genetic diversity is greater in Africa than in Europe. People with similar genes may tend to cooperate more easily. This is a very controversial topic known as "Out of Africa" and it tries to explain levels of economic development Source: Currently economic student at St. Olaf college. _URL_2_

Edit:Spelling
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: European heritage is not a single ethnicity. It is numerous ethnicities, some with greater tendency to display recessive genes such as the gene for blue eyes, or red hair, etc.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Is this true?
People are answering this question as though it were true.

Are there large variations in colour in Europeans, or is the variation in colour more noticeable for Europeans?

It stands to reason that because the colours are lighter, they reflect more light and so are NOTICEABLY different.
Meaning the differences seem large only because you can see the differences.

It's hard to tell the difference between colours that are darker since they reflect less light, and thus small variations, like the small variations in colour in europeans, are more difficult to discern.

Maybe the real answer is that this question is invalid because the thing it describes is artifactual.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Europe has been the end of the line for many, many northern and western migrations, up from Africa and out from Asia. The observed variety there has got little to do with selection or differentiation that took place there, and far more to do with successive waves of different peoples with variations in phenotype arriving and mixing. (I do not use the term "races" because there's only one race).
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: There's some confusion going on in this response and almost every other in this thread in regards to sexual selection. I'm a layman, but I'll attempt to clarify. There are two types of selection: sexual and "genetic" (my term) selection.

Genetic selection refers to the actual biological process of gene creation/formation. If a gene is not well-selected for genetically, say red-hair, it will struggle to survive selection genetically. You know the terms recessive and dominant genes: these apply to genetic selection.

Sexual selection simply involves sexual reproduction. Sexual selection occurs primarily through death and the resulting inability to procreate, a potential partner's preference for a certain trait (as many explanations in this thread propose), and I'm sure there are other processes I can't think of right now. For instance, a dominant gene that makes someone very sickly is not going to do well in terms of sexual selection, even though it may do very well genetically. Take the example of red-hair again, it allows for fantastic vitamin-D absorption in much-less-sunny-than-Africa Europe, hence, early possessor's of red hair in Europe were healthier and lived longer than those with some other hair colors (of course, this isn't the hair allowing for this, but associated phenotypes).

So it is not necessarily the case that any individual man or woman had a preference for red or blond or fair hair, it just happened that these individuals were able to reproduce at greater rates because they were healthier. These genes expanded in the population despite being genetically recessive. Thus, there is no need to ask why "men/women found this trait attractive," they didn't have to, they simply had to mate with those who were most successful in terms of health/lifespan. This is not to say that finding these traits particularly attractive and increased their prevalence too, but it isn't a needed explanation.

Edit: Formatting
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: because celts, mongols, huns, turks, slavs, goths,  greeks, north africans, persians, arabs, hebrews, romani, vikings, egyptians, moors, carthaginians etc etc. 

long story short. a lot of peoples have gone through europe and the surrounding areas and they've all had a long long time to mix in together.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: There are a number of other populations in the world with a lot hair/eye color variation that came about through different genetic mutations: the Ainu, Australian aboriginals, the Hmong, the Solomon Islanders. Central Asia too, but I don't know if that's European genes or not. So the answer to your question might be anthropological as well as genetic--i.e., why were Northern Europeans more successful at breeding a large population than other peoples with light hair/eyes? Probably a combination of factors: less competition, larger geographic area, relative advantages of light hair/eye genes in a cold climate, significant technological advantage at some point in history.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Blue eyes and blond hair, (platinum blonde), and red hair are genetic mutations that occurred in Europe. Sexual selection of people with those mutations caused there to be more and more of them. Some Pacific Islanders also have natural blonde hair which also was the result of a separate genetic mutation.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Sexual selection theory:  Europe was a cold place, with little edible plant matter, so hunting was comparatively much more important.  

Hunters were overwhelmingly male, partially because they're better at it, and partially because male loss wouldn't endanger reproductive capacity.  

So more males died, making the male female ratio lower.  Females couldn't survive easily, making their demand for males even greater.  

Males essentially had their pick of the litter, and they chose women with lighter pigmented eyes.  

What I don't understand about this theory is why something similar didn't happen in east Asia.  However, I've heard that light eyes do occur in some east Asian and American ethnicities (Inuit, Siberians, Mongolians).  It could be a case of "incomplete" evolution.  

Additionally, it's also possible that some genetic quirk made it far more unlikely for the light eye mutation to occur among non-Caucasian peoples.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Part of it is due to the fact that Europe basically acted as the catcher's mitt during the Great Migration, where lots of Asian and Eurasian people moved west into Europe during the later stages of the Roman Empire and shortly thereafter. This helped boost the diversity in European traits
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: No survival pressure to keep it dark for the African sun. More mutations change from negative to neutral.
question: Why is there so much variation in hair and eye colour in people of European heritage? answer: Because this is what the actual diversity is about. Nice of you using "variation" instead.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Ok, apart from everyone elses comments: It might be, it might not be. Numerous experts on either side bicker over it and every once in a while public opinion swings around. Some say that it's ok only before certain activities or with some muscle groups, or that some kind of stretches are ok and others aren't. I don't think you're going to get a definite answer to this.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: It is bad to do a static stretch before physical activity, they should be done after.  It has something to do with locking up your muscles/joints, which is bad if you're going to work out.  The stretches you should do before are moving/dynamic stretches.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Lots of good answers, but I don't see a direct answer for this one here.  What I've always been told is to do dynamic stretching before and static later after the workout.  

Now, **here's why:** when you are running or jumping or whatever, your muscles use the natural stored tension in them to work at their peak performance.  If you stretch those muscles out using static exercises meant to stretch those specific muscles, then you are eliminating some of the natural tension present there.  There is a measurable 5-10% decrease in performance, especially in endurance related sports, when static stretching is done before the activity is performed.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I thought it was good for you! Fuck this exercise craze. No one can agree on shit, and everyone just stays fat.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: As someone who runs 700-800 miles per year, I have found that I'm faster and less prone to injury when I've stretched a bit before I run. Particularly if I go out real early in the morning without the benefit of moving around all day to get my body loose.  

I've seen studies saying it's bad, but my anecdotal experience indicates that it's good for me, so I do it.  Others may feel differently!  If you're going to exercise, try to see how you feel both ways and do whatever works best for you.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I would like to specify a few things first and then elaborate to answer this as properly as possible:

-Stretching prior to a workout when not properly warmed up creates a HIGHER risk of injury than when not stretching at all.

-Stretching prior to a workout after raising the core temperature and increasing blood flow to the area via light activity significantly lowers injury risk due to stretching/overstretching/myostatic reflex (causes your muscles to temporarily tighten in response to stretching). Doing this, however, may still lower performance in the following activity, especially if it is explosive in nature.

-Going through light exercise to increase core temp and area blood flow and then following this with a series of dynamic movements or active isolated stretching (AIS) movements (on phone, Google it yourself) is optimal for increasing performance in following activities when compared to cold stretching, no warm up, and static stretching after light warm up.

-Stretching after a workout has not been shown to increase OR decrease injury rates in both trained and untrained athletes. If you feel it is beneficial to stretch due to YOUR perceived physiological response, then this is the time to do it. Also, if you have flexibility issues, such as hip flexors and hamstrings after sitting in your office all day, then this is a prime time to work on them.

Sorry for not linking to the studies and meta-analysis studies I've gleaned all of this from, but if you want I'll be happy to do so once I get home.

*Source: professional runner and part-time coach.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: When you stretch a muscle you break the actin/myosin weak bonds and pull the fibers apart. At ~ 55% of resting muscle length, these fibers are arranged where they can be utilized to produce maximal contractile force. Stretching preworkout can inhibit force production for this reason. For additional information look up the sliding filament theory. There are of course, multiple implications of this information.

Source:  Exercise physiology degree, CPT
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I find this strange. From personal experience if I don't stretch before strenuous exercise there is a strong chance of me suffering quite severely from cramps the next day. If I stretch properly before my strenuous warm-up it rarely happens.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: First things first, there are many ways to stretch, and not all of them are equal.  I am going to assume that you are referring to static stretching where you move until you feel a stretch and hold it for around 30 seconds to a minute.  This type of stretching has been found to decrease the power output of the stretched muscle (this is a bad thing if you are a power athlete or if your sport or lift requires powerful movements) among other things.  

It has been shown that static stretching decreases muscle stiffness, muscle spindle sensitivity and neural activity.  This results in a decrease in maximal muscle force and the rate of force development (how fast can you produce the force).

However, many people now use a form of stretching referred to as dynamic stretching that has many of the positive traits associated with static stretching but none (or very few) of the negatives. 

I'm happy to elaborate but this is my quick answer.

Source:  Masters degree in Exercise Science  

**TLDR- Different types of stretching does different things.  Static stretching changes the mechanical and electrical properties of muscles which decreases muscle force and power output.** 

For those interested, here are a few articles on the subject:

Acute effects of passive stretching on the electromechanical delay and evoked twitch properties.
_URL_0_

Acute effects of passive stretching on the electromechanical delay and evoked twitch properties: a gender comparison
_URL_3_

Acute effect of static stretching on rate of force development and maximal voluntary contraction in older women
_URL_1_

Effect of stretching on agonist-antagonist muscle activity and muscle force output during single and multiple joint isometric contractions
_URL_6_

Effects of differential stretching protocols during warm-ups on high-speed motor capacities in professional soccer players.
_URL_2_

Acute effect of static and dynamic stretching on hip dynamic range of motion during instep kicking in professional soccer players
_URL_4_

Acute effects of dynamic stretching, static stretching, and light aerobic activity on muscular performance in women
_URL_5_
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: ELI5: The two methods of stretching are static and dynamic.  The method i'm assuming you are referring to is static stretching.  This is the stand still touch your toes type method.  Static stretching is *typically* regarded as harmful before exercise.  This sort of stretching is essentially causing small rips and tears in your muscles due to tension and flexing.  These smalls tears and rips are estimated to reducing muscle potential from 100% down to ~85-90%.  Is this going to kill your gainz?  No.  If you are participating in endurance sports such as futbol, running, etc., this may make a difference.

source: former college athlete
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Do you ever see a lion limber up before it takes down a gazelle?
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: From my NASM book,    
  
By holding the muscle in a stretched position for a prolonged period, the Golgi tendon organ is stimulated and produces an inhibitory effect on the muscle spindle. This allows the muscle to relax and provides for better elongation of the muscle.   

* Acute static stretching, held for more than 30 seconds, may decreas strength and power. Therefore, athletes and others who will be engaging in maximal effort, explosive activities may not want to perform static stretching before the event unless muscle imbalances are present. If static stretching is used, care should be taken so that only the targeted muscles are stretched, and this should be followed by active-isolated or dynamic stretches to increase motorneuron excitability
* Static stretching may be used to correct muscle imbalances and increase joint range of motion before activity in most patients and clients, as part of a progressive, integrated program.  
* Active and dynamic stretching may be used without risking a loss of strength or power. These two forms of stretching may be the most appropriate before physical activity in clients with no identified muscle imbalances.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: It's no where near as clear cut as people want to make it seem.

Stretching before a warm-up can definitely be extremely good for you and your muscles.  It helps prepare the muscles for the strenuous workout it is about to get and gets them used to the range of motion they will be put through.

The problem with stretching is that it's very easy to hurt yourself.  Even without feeling much pain, over-extension is a big problem and can end up hurting far more than it helps.  This means that, if you don't know what you're doing, stretching before a warm-up could very much hurt your long-term gains, and worse case scenario lead to muscular damage.  More importantly than stretching is learning HOW to stretch.  The reason why most people generally say that a warmup is better than a stretch is because a warmup accomplishes basically the same thing but without the risk of injury.

That said, in my own personal experience having been partaking in muay thai, swimming, and fencing for 15+ years, stretching is definitely more preferable than a lone warm-up.  It's just that you have to do it right ;)
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: The type of stretch you do before your workout can be harmful. What you see most athletes do is a long static stretch; like sitting with your legs extended and grabbing your ankles for 30 sec to stretch your hamstrings.

However, what the static stretch actually does is send signals to your brain to *relax* that muscle. The mechanism that controls this is the [Golgi Tendon Organ](_URL_8_), abbreviated GTO. 

Understand that when you lengthen your muscles for a stretch, you are still causing a "contraction" of the muscle. This is called an *eccentric* muscle contraction. When the muscle is eccentrically contracted and held, then released, The GTO responds with its [Golgi Tendon Reflex](_URL_7_). 

This reflex is why it feels so relaxing to stretch after a long day. This method can easily be checked by tilting your ear to your shoulder. Notice the limit of range of motion you have. 

Relax, and then tilt your ear to your shoulder again, but this time push your head towards your shoulder with your hand, and push/actively resist the push from your hand. Hold for 30 seconds. Your stretched traps should be relaxed and you should notice an improvement in range of motion.

You should perform *ballistic* stretching before a hardcore exercise like a run. These are fast, rapid stretches that are not held. An example would be a stretch of your hamstrings as your kick your leg up towards your head. These types of stretches will increase your range of motion without activating the GTO's reflex. If you've ever done P90X, Tony Horton does some balistic stretching in his videos.

Source: Student Physical Therapist Assistant. We've measured ROM improvement from this reflex in class, usually with tight neck muscles (Trapezius, Levator Scapulae, SCM).

Disclaimer: Not everything I might be saying here could be 100% accurate, but this is the current research in books and studies. Still learning new things everyday; consult a PT/PTA for further detail.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I'm studying physical therapy and this topic comes up a lot. After an extensive amount of research, I concluded that static stretching is not the best for you because it will either have no effect or act negatively on performance. However dynamic warm ups are effective because they are increasing your core temperature and not acutely putting stress on your muscle tissue. It is easier to transfer energy through your joints with a stiffer tendon (tendons attach bones to muscle tissue). Tendons loosen up or lengthen while static stretching. This concept is similar to how running shoes with a hard sole are easier to transfer energy to the cement while running compared to a shoe with a soft sole while running. Having a higher core temp and an increased heart rate is also necessary for your performance demands because you will be able to utilize oxygen and ATP (energy) more efficiently. In other words you don't have to go from having a heart rate of 75 beats per minute to 140 beats per minute (static stretching scenario to playing a sport), but rather go from a heart rate of 95 beats per minute to 140 beats per minute (Dynamic stretching scenario to playing a sport). 

In the end, it can always be debated that every person should do what they feel is the best for them. There is always a psychological aspect to things and not everything that deals with stretching is black and white, but this is the best answer I can give you. 

Tl;Dr dynamic stretch before exercise as opposed to static stretch.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Your muscles are like a stick of gum. When the gum is fresh out the wrapper and you try to bend it, it will snap beyond a certain point. Now when your muscles are warmed up and have blood flowing. It is like a chewed piece of gum, elastic and pliable. Easiest eli5 I can produce.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Warm up and stretch highly recommended before exercises, case closed. If someone tells you opposite dont listen this person
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: The research is always cloudy on this issue because people have different patterns of tension, and research doesn't account for so many variables (length/tension relationships....strength....resting tension....postural variables in the chain...etc))

Take a hamstring stretch for example.  Some folks have long hamstrings and some have short hamstrings.  Research rarely accounts for this. You take 10 people and stretch their hamstrings and 3 will benefit and become aligned, 3 will move toward disfunction, 3 might not have anything happen.  1 might get injured.

**Static Stretching** is essentially stretching something without integrating the nervous system. You're not stretching in a dynamic way that integrates function The nervous system doesn't coordinate the new movement well and then you have the cliche 'sprinter tears hamstring after static stretching'....

**Dynamic stretching** integrates the movement while stretching and is better for getting arranged before a workout. It also allows the muscles to keep their normal range of motion in a safer environment (not 'cunfusing the golgi tendon, etc) while INTEGRATING the movement.

**Never** static stretch before a sprint, or other high output athletic movement.   If you take a muscle beyond it's normal range without integrating the movement then test it at high speed.....you can imagine what can happen.  

**Always** learn about your body's bomechanical shortcoming and align yourself before regular (aka not competition or high speed) training.  This could be static/dynamic/rolling?etc.....Stretching before regular training that helps align your joints is a good thing. Example; stretching your hip ROM before deadlifts so your back has room to stay aligned and extended.

If you're thinking about **pre-competition** stretching, don't do it.....Simply warm up to get flexible and ready.  You should have already done proper mobility work all the way up to this point.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Here's the thing. 

I'm not physical therapist, not a doctor, not a professional athlete, not a coach. 

But I know this: 
You know your own body better than all of those people combined. If you feel comfortable stretching before a workout, then stretch. Don't kill yourself doing it, but stretch. 

If you don't feel comfortable, warm up first. There's not a definitive answer.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: It's my understanding that it's not "bad" to stretch before exercise.  It's just better to stretch AFTER exercise.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: There are several types of stretches: stationary, dynamic, ballistic, and myofascial release. Each type of stretch details a different sort of movement and so, depending on the type of stretch, it can either be good or bad to do so before exercise.

Let's start with stationary:
This is the type of stretching most everyone is familiar with... The reach-for-your-toes, pull-your-hamstring-back kind of stretch. This is great for during exercise or post exercise, but because you're doing one deep movement, it's unwise to do so beforehand because you don't want to overstretch when cold. Great for alleviating soreness.

Next, ballistic: Ballistic stretching borrows a lot of the same form from stationary, only you're using many small movements in order to reach a deeper stretch. For example, if I'm doing a ballistic toe touch, I'd "pulsate" the stretch, pulling back and then pushing farther down. This is great for developing flexibility, but like stationary stretching, there's risk of tearing when attempting to pull so deeply when the muscles aren't already loose.

Which leads me to dynamic stretching: Most athletes, I'm sure, are familiar with dynamic stretching. This is great for pre-exercise. Let's use soccer as an example. If I run out on the field, my muscles aren't loose. Because of that, say, if I step on a divot the wrong way (and thereby twist the wrong way), there is the chance that I might hurt myself... Pull, sprain, or tear a muscle. True, I can loosen the muscle by taking a quick easy jog, but dynamic stretching is effective and efficient because it utilizes specific movements to activate specific muscles (which is why you'll see different sports utilize different dynamic movements in their pre-workout routines). There's nothing that says it's bad to dynamically stretch after a workout, but it's definitely built to be a pre-workout muscle "loosener," so to speak.

Lastly, we have myofascial release: I've noticed that this has only recently gotten to be popular, but most people probably know it as foam rolling. Essentially, all you do is apply pressure against tight muscles and roll it out. I'm a little iffy on the exact science of what happens, but what I can tell you is that because there is no active pulling of any muscle it can be done any time during a workout (usually lifting): before, during, after, and even hours later. This is great for getting rid of soreness.

Now, everyone's different. Some people are more flexible overall, some people are more flexible in certain muscle groups than in others. You're not necessarily going to rip something while static or ballistic stretching before you're warmed up. And static or ballistic stretching doesn't mean you're going to injure yourself later. A part of it is also mental, a placebo effect, even. A goalie or a pitcher might have a weird superstitious routine he/she must do before getting into the net. Similarly, an experienced jogger might have a routine of stretches he or she does before running the race. Maybe some of those are static. In that case, it may be safer to allow the jogger to do what has been working for a decade than to risk getting into his or her head, messing with them and causing them, say, to trip.

If I'm just lifting, though? I'm not going to stretch at all before working out. I will, though, warm-up. If I know I'm doing cleans, presses, and squats, I'm going to do 3 rounds of a barbell complex at a very light weight (30# to 50#) with which I know I won't hurt myself. If I'm hitting the bench press later? Push-ups. Maybe 3x10 reps of just the bar. Warming-up, in my opinion, will always be important in a workout. One, it's safer, and two, you will simply perform much better.

Sources: varsity in high school, military training, ACE personal training classes (I just got the cert exam left)
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Exercise physiologist here. The point of stretching before exercise was initially thought to promote blood flow and warm the muscle (ie. a type of "warmup"). However, research has shown that stretching often has an adverse effect. I'm too lazy to link you the research, but I'll ELI5 it for you:

Think of stretching like wringing out a wet cloth soaked with water. The cloth would be your muscle and the water would be your blood. Wringing out the cloth forces water out of the cloth. 

Stretching can also temporarily ease the tension in a muscle, causing a relative amount of instability. Some research suggests that stretching hard before an exercise bout can actually *cause* injury.

Lastly, some studies have shown that performance decreases with stretching prior to exercise. I'm always reminded of this when I see a "bro" stretch his pecs real hard and then attempt a 1RM bench press! A light warm up would likely cause less strain on his pecs, and he'd probably have a better 1RM if he didn't weaken them by stretching hard first.

Note that all of these phenomena only occur under INTENSE stretching. Light to moderate stretching does not "wring out" the blood like it does with intense stretching, nor is there a greater potential for injury, nor will it weaken performance. Go ahead and stretch *lightly* prior to exercise if it floats your boat. It should be noted however that light stretching isn't that great of a warmup, since blood flow isn't promoted like how it is with light cardiovascular exercise. 

If you actually want to prepare your muscles for exercise, there is no substitute for getting your heart rate up. Do a light jog or the equivalent (bike, skipping, etc), to the point where you break a sweat. This should take 5-10 mins.

Also, you should not interpret this as "stretching being bad". Stretching is good, It's just not ideal prior to exercise. Instead, give yourself a good stretch *after* your exercise bout. This is a great way to cool down, ease any excess tension in the muscles, and it also feels great! You can also do intense stretches at this time without any unwanted effects, unlike stretching prior to exercise.

Lastly "intense" stretching is typically defined as something similar to:
- a stretch held for 30 seconds or greater at an angle within 10 degrees or less of the end ROM. Stretching of this nature is typically what it takes to promote flexibility (but everybody is different).

Edit: 
I just noticed that a lot of other posts refer to dynamic vs. static stretching. I agree that dynamic stretching is best prior to an exercise bout; in effect you are *moving at a light to moderate pace*, which elevates the heart rate and increases blood flow, exactly like what happens when warming up on a bike or treadmill. The only difference would be that dynamic stretching would promote a more localized blood flow vs. a treadmill/bike warmup would increase blood flow all over. In my opinion, I prefer treadmill/bike warmups, since it elevates the heart rate better and also generates heat all over the body, effectively warming the muscles better than just a dynamic stretch. This is also somewhat splitting hairs. Practically, if you do *something* to get your heart rate going and the muscles warm, you are warming up properly.

The stretching I referred to in my post only refers to static stretching prior to exercise.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I really think it depends on the kind of stretching you do, and how you're about to exercise.  I was a ballerina, so my workout required a certain amount of flexibility above what's normal.   Therefore, stretching before attending rehearsal was beneficial.  However, there are 3 types of stretches, as far as dancers are concerned, and they're not all good before working out.

1. The push it like you're going to break it stretch.  I'm sure there's a better term for this, but active stretching is best done after working out.  If you're using door frames or really pushing to hold down your stretch, your muscles will feel noodley afterwards.  Not good. I found my balance was worse and my overall performance was worse.  Also, really easy to pull a muscle doing this cold...

2. Warm up stretching.  Jumping around, getting the cricks out, swinging your legs back and forth.  this is good to do before almost any kind of workout, gets the blood flowing and prepares your body for activity  But I don't really consider this stretching.  

3. The sink into it stretch.  This is by far the most effective stretch, in my opinion, to do before a workout.  I set aside about 30 minutes before a rehearsal just for stretching.  You get in a comfortable "stretching" position and let gravity pull you deeper into the stretch.  After 3-5 minutes of sinking, you will feel limber, be more flexible, but not weaker.  I'm just a dancer, not a doctor, but my feelings on this is that you're not losing strength because you're allowing your muscles to let go of tension, not actually stretching the fibers apart.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Well, first we need to eliminate the variables you've presented to us. 

The question you probably want to be asking is "Why is it bad to static stretch before exercise?"

Static stretching, is best performed at the *end* of an exercise as the muscle fascia would be warm and  fluid at this stage of the workout. After muscular hypertrophy exercises (any form of exercise that breaks down muscle tissue, that would then equate to repair and increased muscle mass) would benefit from static stretching to increase blood flow and reduce lactic acid build up.

However, people tend to do static stretching to begin a workout. The muscle fiber is being worked, cold, without being warm and incredibly elastic. This causes micro-tears in the fascia and weakens the muscle before the workout. 

Dynamic stretching, working the movement that is about to be performed and working the muscle to stretch it out (think of doing a squat and doing it weightless for a few repetitions to warm the muscle group) will actually decrease the likeliness of injury.

ELI5: Static stretching causes micro-tears in the fascia resulting in increased risk of overload, injury and being weaker.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I know this is old but I feel that a lot of the answers here don't actually give you the correct answer. 

The reason you see such varied responses is because it's different for what your are trying to do.

**Inflexible / unfit:** If you are just starting, dynamic or static stretches are important after working out because your muscles aren't use to movement. Endurance isn't important when you don't have muscles that can do whole range of movements.

**Weighted working out:** Static stretches will cause you to have less endurance and strength. As such most people doing weights tend to be anti-stretching as it steals 'gains', dynamic stretching in these cases are important but.

**Long term excerising:** Dynamic working-out before and static after to get out acids.

So the problem isn't that people disagree on if stretching is or isn't important, it's that you can't lump 'working out' as one thing.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Certain types of stretches before working out will benefit you, and some will harm you. 

There are "kinetic" stretches and "static" stretches. Kinetic stretches involve a moving stretch, such as *(you may have different names for some of these)* leg swings, arms swings, chest hugs, torso twists, etc. Static stretches would involve straddle, pike, arm across the chest, bent arm over the head, calves, etc.

Kinetic stretches **can be done before** a workout, and Static stretches **should be done afterwards**. ***This is because before doing static stretches, you want your body's temperature to be higher so that all the muscles are looser and less prone to injury, and experience more muscle growth!

*** Source from National Strength and Conditioning Association Essentials of Personal Training Textbook
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: A simple explanation:

Stretching cold muscles can injure them, between microtears and moving past what nerves sense is the healthy range for the muscle, you can hurt yourself.  However, if the muscle is warm (i.e. blood flowing through it), you can stretch without issue.  

Stretching before exercise has been found in studies to reduce peak power production.  If you're about to try for a new 1 repetition max for a squat or power clean, stretching will decrease the maximum power available for that motion.  The same for many track and field events - high jumpers and sprinters don't stretch in order to preserve the elastic component of the muscles and tendons that help "capture" more energy and propel them faster.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I know I'm late to this party and all but here it goes... Simply put Stretching **CAN BE BAD** or **BENEFICIAL** towards your performance
     
There is some things to look at before stretching, like what your about to do and how your going to do it, there are multiple types of stretching and are all use for different reasons. What i can tell you simply is that the old fashion stretch and hold for 10 seconds is one of the worse things you can do. Your muscles are like a rubber band. If you stretch it and hold it there it gets loose but it loses its springy nature that you will want for your exercise.

More Info: _URL_9_
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I'll try to simplify this. In the case of static stretching, some studies have shown that it diminishes explosiveness in certain muscles groups in the time period leading up to the event/activity. You can think of it like a rubber band being too stretched out over time, except your muscles will eventually tighten up again. Studies concerning dynamic stretching (plyometrics, etc.) have been more positive as far as explosiveness and overall performance levels are concerned. 

One big thing to note is that the studies I've seen have reported a decrease in short-term performance, but static stretching can be beneficial to long-term performance (injury prevention).

Source: I have a bachelor's degree in exercise science.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: My coach tells us this (whether it is correct or not, I don't know, but I trust him because he wins everything): BEFORE you workout, you DYNAMICALLY stretch. This gets your muscles warmed up while also stretching them the same way they will be during the actual workout. Furthermore, it keeps you from over-stretching them, which reduces their ability to put out power (so you can't train as hard). Then, AFTER your workout, you do STATIC stretching since this will not affect performance, and will help you get a good stretch to improve overall flexibility and prevent cramps, etc...
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Preworkout static stretching does not reduce injury and lessens force production of the muscles. You should still "warm up", but static stretching (holding a stretch for a period of time) should not be part of that, while dynamic stretching (movements that "loosen your up") should be.

Caveat: static stretching of non-primary movers is completely fine. If you cannot get a barbell on your back for squats, stretching your shoulders is okay.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Static stretching of a muscle helps return it to a relaxed state.  You just got in from a run?  Let's stretch those muscles out!  Prior to activity, you're better off doing dynamic stretches, "limbering up" as some people will say.  Do some lunges, jump around a bit, and take your legs through their full range of motion before the run.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: When it comes to weight lifting, static stretching can weaken the muscle you're targeting, and when you then apply a resistance to it, you can strain the muscle.

It's better to warm up with a couple sets of low weights, and do slow full range of motion reps of the exercise you plan on doing.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Any one in this thread claiming one way or the other is wrong needs to be ignored. There are pros and cons to each method and it mostly depends on the users goals and starting state.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: there's a difference between static stretching and dynamic stretching. It's important to complete *dynamic* stretching before a workout and *static* stretching after the workout. Here's a [quick explanation and routine](_URL_10_) from a personal trainer
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Your muscles will be cold pre workout, it's good to jump around and get some blood pumping but reserve the stretching for after when the muscles are more lean and elasticized.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: You stretch before workouts, but after the warmup. I've heard if you stretch without warming up first you can pull a muscle and ruin your workout.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Stretch a cold rubber band, then stretch a warm one. Same thing basically.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: are you sure you aren't confusing google with bing
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I'm seeing a lot of indirect answers to this question that are very close...

Muscles fiber is kind of like two combs you put together with the teeth overlapping.  When a muscle is activated, the overlapping teeth pull on each other to bring combs closer together (hence why muscles only contract).  A key concept that arises from this is the length-tension relationship which is exactly how it sounds - the length of the muscles (or separation of the fibers) as compared to the existing tension in the muscle.  Stretching helps to increase the length and decrease the tension and this is certainly useful after exercise when the muscles have been shortened and contracted for a period of time.  Stretching before the exercise used to be seen as a way to "warm up" the fibers, but it can also stretch them out of their optimal length-tension relationship making them weaker and increasing your potential for injury.


This is why the general advice now given is to do dynamic stretches and/or do a light weight version of the activity you're about to perform before exercising (e.g. doing a bicep curl in an easy warm-up weight range before doing sets that will actually test your limits and bring the muscles to fatigue).

For more details on the "Sliding Filament Theory" you go to [here](_URL_11_).
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: I've heard this from my physical therapist who also happened to work for the Eagles During their Super Bowl run of 2004 (that year the team had the lowest number of injuries in the NFL). She claims, stretching will lengthen the muscle and when you go to do compound movements, your muscles are weaker relative to before stretching. That's why she recommends warming up for 5 minutes (running, jumping jacks) to prepare your body for the lifting, and you will see better gains. Stretching after is very important to lenghthen the muscle so you don't develop too tight of muscles, I've seen this happen to many a biceps. 

Edit: 2004 not 2001
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Since everyone seems to want to talk out their ass instead of providing sources, here's the simple truth of it: there is **no strong evidence** supporting or discrediting *any* type of stretching before or after exercise. 

Here's a [paper](_URL_12_) where they reviewed the different types of stretching and studies on whether or not these types of stretching were beneficial or damaging based on when the stretch was performed (before/after exercise). 

The conclusion? There isn't strong evidence on any side of the equation. Stretching, much like dieting, is specific to the individual. Try out different types of stretching before and after a workout and see what works best for you.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: i am head coach for a track team.  all of our coaches go through uniform training which teaches dynamic warmups and no pre-running stretches, and yet, any time I leave my assistant coaches to their own devices, they have the kids stretch before a run.  stretching before a run is how we all learned as kids ourselves, and it's hard to turn off.  one of my assistant coaches recently told me that he "knows what my body tells me," i.e., forget our modern training, he's going to persist in his belief that an athlete should stretch before a long run.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: It was explained to me like this. Imagine your muscle is a rubber band. If you put that rubber band in a freezer and try and stretch it what happens it breaks. Before you warm up your muscles are cold. So you need a little exercise before hand to warm them up so they can stretch without injury. Its not that stretching before a workout is bad. Its stretching before your muscles are warm. To warm them up a little jogging in place or jumping jacks should do the trick.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Think of working out like making spaghetti. You have to let the water boil first (you do warmup exercises). Then you put the noodles in (your workout itself). After it's done, you strain it (your cool down exercises). If you bend a spaghetti noodle before it's warmed up, it'll snap. If you force your muscles to bend in post-workout mode *before* you warmup and workout, you can damage them. You're spaghetti. Don't bend before you are ready and warmed up.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: The best (and most compelling) evidence I've seen basically says this:  stretching out before you exercise just stretches out your muscles, making them less taught.  Taught muscles are what make you move and lift and jump.  So you're getting less power and less precision. 
  
Also bear in mind that there's a difference between static stretching and dynamic stretching.  Just stretching everything loose is bad, but working through the range of motion for what you're about to do is good.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: ELI5 Answer: Think of your muscles and tendons like stiff rubber. If you stretch the traditional way (static stretching) then all you're doing is ineffectively stretching your muscles and actually lose some of your "bounce" (Some people say that static stretching actually hinders some explosive movements). 

Rather you should do some more "dynamic" stretching where you perform movements that warm up your "rubber" muscles and stretch them simultaneously.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: The people that say it is bad because it affects athletic performance.  Stretching isn't going to hurt you before exercising.  It's just going to slightly affect performance.  This subject matter really just varies depending on individuals and training goals. High level athletes training performance purposes might be better off with dynamic stretches. Random person working out to stay in shape, it really doesn't matter.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Unless you have a shortened muscle that will stop you from being able to do the exercise you want you shouldn't static stretch before exercise. This is BC static stretching decreases the muscles ability to produce force as it gets longer increasing the chance of getting hurt. Examples would be going down during a squat or landing from a jump.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Stretching doesn't necessarily prove performance or reduce injury.  However, static stretches move your body beyond the range of motion you will use in the actual exercise, which can increase your risk of injury.  Dynamic stretching simulates the movements you will use in the actual exercise and is more beneficial if you choose to stretch.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Light, dynamic (moving) stretches should be done BEFORE a workout to increase your heart rate and bloodflow, as preparation for exercise.

Deeper, static (non-moving) stretches should be done AFTER your workout to release tension and lactic acid build-up (lactic acid is what causes you to feel sore the day after).

Both are equally important.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Few clear answers, ill offer my own personal views. 

I find it's best not to full out stretch, but to stretch a little bit for less than five seconds.Kind of like a slow continuous stretch dance. Limbers amd warms the muscles, but doesn't full on stretch them out.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: The theory came from the Military, particularly the NAVY (SEALs).   A cold muscle does not stretch and is prone to injury.   You should do jumping jacks, or calisthenics for a few minute to warm up then stretch prior to your core workout.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: i stretch i don't get a charlie horse in my leg i don't stretch i get a charlie horse in my leg i'm gonna continue to stretch before i run
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: Your muscles are like taffy: When it's cold and you stretch it too fast, it snaps right? But if the taffy is warm then it less chance of that happening
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: It's not.

It's perfectly fine to stretch before exercise, just don't stretch completely cold. Do a little warm up first, then stretch, then get to the exercise.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: You don't want to stretch cold muscles, you should jog 15 min. Then stretch, that way you run less risk of tearing or staring your muscles
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: For me, stretching afterwards prevents a lot of soreness. Also, it feels amazing.
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: You ever see a lion stretch before it takes down a gazelle?
question: Why is it bad to stretch before exercise?I have always been taught to stretch and warm up before workouts.  Googling the subject suggests that is wrong and stretching before exercise is bad.  Can someone ELI5 why that is? answer: This is incorrect.  Stretching is always good, at any time.  Seriously.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: That's not the aim of the prison system. It should be, but the US prison system is based on punishing criminals more than rehabilitating them.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Rehabilitation is only one goal of the criminal justice system. Classically the five goals of the criminal justice system are:

1. Retribution.

2. Incapacitation.

3. Deterrence. 

4. Rehabilitation.

5. Restoration.

Also it's hard for politicians (including DAs and Judges) in most places to run on a platform focused on rehabilitating criminals. The "tough on crime" platform sells better.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Criminal justice graduate. This is one of the biggest statements the prison system makes, that reform is their main goal asking with punishment. Implementing it has been difficult but the transition is coming along. Many prisons offer programs that would have been laughed at 40 years ago. Education programs, work release programs, mental health programs etc. The problem really lies with us, the American public. We've made it clear we want to know people's past and be able to judge them accordingly. Mainly because of things like the recidivism rate being so high. Which comes back around to poor reform. Basically most Americans want to know who the "ex-cons" are to "keep an eye" on them.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: This seems like a rather leading question, doesn't it? I mean i agree with the answers you're leading, but designing a question to get a response you want is just going to lead to circlejerking.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: The main problem with the original ELI5 question is that it contains basic untruths about the purpose of the prison system. Much of society (and people commenting on here) forget that prevention is better than cure. Many people seem to be of the opinion that punishment after a crime is the best we can do to fix the damage done. As others have pointed out; this is just small minded and irrational, it ignores the bigger picture of criminals re-offending and tackling the initial causes of crime. Why not try to prevent further crime? Prison sentences are a quick fix for the symptoms of crime and not the underlying societal disease. What about tackling poverty, discrimination, addiction, abuse, unemployment (as in the original question), inequality and poor education. People need to look at the bigger picture and not assume that the prison system is the most effective solution for a highly complex problem.

You have also got to remember the vested interests many companies have in maintaining a large prison population for company profit. If the system is run like a business with the main aim being to make money, how can you be surprised when the system doesn't adequately meet the societal and perhaps 'moral' role of true offender rehabilitation? I am not saying we don't need a penal system, of course prisons are needed for public safety as some criminals are too dangerous to be released, but this is the minority of offenders. Rather than demonising criminals and labelling them as 'evil', we should try to better understand why they did what they did and help prevent themselves or others from doing it again rather than blindly throwing them in a cell and hoping they change themselves.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: When talking about prison there are three things to keep in mind.

1. Punishment is a deterrent. 
2. Incarceration segregates dangerous people from society.
3. Rehabilitation is the pursuit to correct a criminal's behavior so that they can function better in society.

There is a staggering number of people who do not know why punishment is necessary or good, and these people tend to think that vengeance is moral and that criminals *deserve* to suffer. This is sometimes rooted in religion but always in ignorance. People just simply are not aware that the opinion they're holding is irrational and wrong.

Politicians and lawmakers are either are a victim to it themselves or just capitalize on this ignorance and try to gain support from these people by placating their irrational beliefs instead of correcting them. People don't like to be corrected, generally; they don't respond well to being told that their beliefs are irrational and wrong, especially if those beliefs are part of their identity as religious beliefs tend to be.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because that is not the aim of the American prison system. The aim of the American prison system is to punish people and act as a deterrent to those who may think about committing crime. It's a different approach to most other civilized countries and statistics show that it does not work. Of course, as with all things in America, another aim of the prison system is to make profit for those rich enough to have an influence on the political system.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: I make no claims in support of the ideas I present below -I just present them for discussion.

First, it's not a universal goal of prison systems to care about rehabilitation and reintergration of prisoners. A major function of prison is punishment of law breakers and the hope that their punishment will discourage others from breaking the law. 

 Next, even where rehabilitation and reintegration are *goals*, those goals are not always, or even often successfully achieved. A comparatively small percentage of the total population is responsible for a substantial portion of crimes committed, and recidivism is common.  Something like two-thirds of prisoners are rearrested for another crime within three years.
_URL_0_

There is a valid argument to be made that the current US prison system contributes to this, but there is no prison system in the world that I can find anything on which doesn't have some recidivism rate. There are variations of course but lower rates are better attributed to cultural reasons than prison philosophy. So there is no automatically better system which could just be instantly implemented because it's a proven solution.

Given these circumstances, the populace, expressing their opinion through laws have determined that they want to be warned about people with a history of crimes and thus we have public records of convictions available. Some exceptions are made for juveniles and for some minor crimes, and distinctions are made between serious crimes (deemed felonies) and lesser crimes.  Companies  generally believe best not to hire people with felony histories of dishonesty or violence. Communities, noting the very high rates of reoffense, try to keep pedophiles away from schools. Such decisions, while hard on individuals, are considered to be beneficial to businesses and communities.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Prisons are there to protect the law-abiding members of society from people who have demonstrated an inability to meet certain standards of behaviour. Generally, folks don't get incarcerated for minor transgressions. Employers are usually looking for reliable workers who they can trust and who will be good ambassadors with customers. Ultimately it comes down to what skills and experience and references you've got that will make somebody want to hire you, compared to whatever other candidates they might see (or hope to see). There are jobs out there, but not always the nicest ones that are just a few strides from your front porch.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: I don't know about america, but in Australia the standard procedure is to find a pathway for life after prison for the inmate. We usually have a work release prison for inmates with little time left on their sentence. They usually go out of the prison to apply for work etc. They will work at the site and come back to prison to stay out their sentence. the idea is, that when they finish their sentence they just continue on working at the place they applied for.

There are actually alot of places that don't mind employing ex-inmates. upon interview they will generally speak with their welfare officer to gain insight into how their rehab went in prison etc before employment.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Carrot and stick mentality.

A simple theory taught to children created the thinking "if you commit a crime, you will be punished badly so you are scared to not commit it again".
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: I have worked in Juvenile Corrections and Adult Probation.  So many people in the system don't get a head because they keep on starting over.  Going on the run, spending thousands in drugs, owing thousand in restitution, get you really behind.

I had a union carpenter that complained that he "only takes on $35 an hour after dues, medical and taxes."  He relapsed on coke and got into trouble in public.

I had a bunch of kids that got good jobs as baristas.  One went to the hospital for an overdose and another spent so much time smoking pot that they missed their jobs 4 days in a row.  Both got canned for missing work.  They were making about $16 an hour, due to being tipped well.

Many prisons, especially women's prisons, have some sort of social worker trying to get these people support.  But they fuck it up, over and over again.  Imagine starting your life over ever 5-10 years when you relapse severely into drugs, viciously assault people, and do massive amounts of property damage.  Hell, you kick a door down and bust out a few windows you owe $1000 real quick.

Swing by /r/socialwork and do some independent reading on how how the prison social workers get burned the fuck out real quick.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Former prison educator here; I am someone in the rehabilitation side of the prison system. 

Too many people are referring to prison time as a 'debt to society.' I don't think that's the best way to understand why most people are in PRISON, as opposed to jail. You go to jail for a short-term 'debt' style punishment (i.e., you are a repeat drunk driver, etc).  You generally go to prison if you are dangerous to others, and need to be contained away from society. You aren't paying a debt per se. You're a danger to others and must simply be kept away to protect their safety. 

I've seen our prisons work to rehabilitate some very hardened criminals, through a mixture of classical education and psychological therapy. It can work well for those who really want to change. Sadly, many simply do not want to change.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because withholding information (asymmetric information) to employers with regard to the employee/ex-criminal would be unfair aswell. Employers have the right do select people based on their history
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: So many people here seem to be so aggressive against the prison system and actively defending the prisoners, claiming they need to receive more and more programs, benefits, etc. to help them reintegrate into society. I don't know where your mind is but quite frankly I don't want to reintegrate felons into society and I feel like others would be able to sympathize here. A felon is someone who has committed a serious crime against society; most likely homicide, rape, arson, burglary, robbery, larceny, escaping from a prison, and/or assisting in a felony.

   Why are redditors focusing so hard on getting these people OUT of prison and BACK into society? I am sure you guys are going to think of some PC SJW stuff to justify this but come on, really? 

   To answer your question, OP, they are branded for life in such a way that they can't get a job because I don't want a child molester to get a job. I don't want someone who stabbed his ex girlfriend 30 times to get a job. I don't want an angry college student who attempted to shoot up his school to get a job. I don't want someone who kidnapped and tortured a child to get a job. I want them to suffer. I want them to be away from my mother, little sister, and friends. I don't want to have to worry about "what if the guy delivering my food to me while I'm all alone in my nice house in the boonies has been previously convicted of a violent sex crime?" I don't want to have to worry about going to university with someone who previously made death threats to a classmate and threatened to enact revenge.

   I am sure most of the population that votes for the prison system to be the way it is would agree with me. Maybe if they actually wanted to be productive members of society, they should have thought about that before disrupting the peace. 

   To those who claim the recidivism rates are because of the way the people are treated after they get out...open your eyes. The recidivism rates are because felons generally tend to be violent criminals and that doesn't go away after being placed in a metal box for a few years. Normal human beings do not just go out and kill someone when they are mad. Normal human beings don't just rape another person when they're sexually frustrated. Normal human beings don't have the urge to burn down homes when they feel conflicted in life. We deal with it and move on. There is not a single felon who can blame anyone else for the crime they committed unless it was done under duress. Those who blame it on "being poor" or being "raised in the hood" or being kiddy diddled are even worse because they refuse to assume responsibility for their actions. There have been a lot of people who have grown up in similar/worse conditions as those felons and who worked hard and managed to get out of that lifestyle. There's really no excuse.

   Nobody put a gun in their hands and told them to shoot. They did it of their own accord. Now they face the consequences of being locked away and socially ostracized once they're out, they deserve it and shouldn't have committed the crime in the first place if they wanted people to like them and to be able to get a job. It's almost as though Reddit thinks that it's a worse crime against humanity to be unliked, unable to get a job and bullied a bit than it is to literally kill another human being. Have fun explaining that to a rape victim. "Yeah, we know that John killed a little girl. BUT he spent 5 years in prison with his gym, library, gang, education program, church, and his makeshift job. We let him out a little early on probation for good behavior! Now you better employ John and also dosh out a bit of extra cash on your paycheck to help financially assist the prison system in giving these guys more things while they're being punished. And don't you dare be a little mean to John or upset when he is around any more small children, that's BULLYING and could make him FEEL BAD and those behaviors are why he COMMITTED CRIMES IN THE FIRST PLACE." 

Stop. Victimizing. Criminals. They did it to themselves.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: It's because the us population really doesn't care about rehabilitating its prisoners. We've shown over and over again in elections that we prefer to be "tough on crime" and our justice system is as such. Never mind the fact that major jail time has been shown to be a poor deterrent because most criminals are criminals out of economic necessity rather than a concious choice to be a danny ocean-esque thief. Furthermore we've shown a sort of sentancing inflation where crimes way disproportionately punish people. When people think of prisons they think rapists and murderers and like someone else in this thread already did they make the leap that grandmas murderer will be getting it easy. Furthermore somehow we've made the idea of a private prison exist. Like how in anyway shape or form that is a thing I don't know but private prisons actively campaign to keep jail time flowing so they can keep raking in inmates and money. Finally add in the troubling issue where minorities frequently garner stiffer penalties than whites and you have one mess of a prison system. Its almost impossible to reform becausd nobody wants to be on record as being soft for rapists and murderers
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: The privatization of the U.S prisons is the social failure of the system. Prisons once owned/operated by the government were basically sold to "friends" of the said politicians. Now they're run like misfit hotels. We all know if the hotel is full someone's making money.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because the United States is a country in the same way that MacDonald's is a fine dining experience. It's basically a giant satirical theme park for people from real countries.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Ummm, the prison system is based on making money off of people unable to defend themselves, not rehabilitation. Lol, this is America if it's not monetized it's terrorism.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Much of it has to do with how the government believes society should deal with crime. If you believe people are at their core natures shitty, then those people can't be rehabilitated in order to save them from themselves. The only hope is that you provide enough a deterrent with dire consequences to prevent them from doing crime, as bad people only respect power.  Thomas Hobbes basically put this idea forward in *The Leviathan.*

If you believe people are innocent and angelic at birth, as Jean Jeaque Rosseau did, and that society corrupts them, then society should deal with crime through rehabilitation.  For what person would continue trying to make their rights wrong when everything around them continually reminds them of their mistakes and refuses to let them move on?  A primarily penalizing society would rob a good person of any hope of redemption, and he or she would fall back into despair and regret, giving up on doing the right thing.

I myself believe Hobbes leans more toward the truth, but people don't have to be angels in order not to be devils. They can be uneducated, misguided, and dare I say, innocent or ignorant, and living in a free society gives them the opportunity to better themselves and "move towards the light," so to speak.

Plus the prisons want to make a profit.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: (bare in mind this is coming from an EU/UK perspective) 

The whole system, despite what people say and/or experience is A LOT better than it used to be, you would be beheaded, receive lashes or be publicly shamed a century ago. It is by no means perfect and is still a very flawed system but in the grand scheme of things it is improving over the years (it has it's little ups and downs but overall it is improving) and with such things as equal rights and anti-discrimination laws taking front stage it should only get better from hear on out.

Imagine for a moment if someone from 100 years ago could read this thread, they'd think we live in Utopia. I bet that in 100 years time our current system will look just as barbaric as the system was 100 years ago and if we saw a similar thread from 100 years in the future I bet we'd think they live in Utopia and I'm sure they will also have issues/problems they deem just as bad as we feel our current problems are. It's all a matter of perspective and sometimes it helps to look at the bigger picture.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Several reasons.

Here are my favorites

First US prisons are a business. A major business and therefore they lobby to increase the prison population as it increases their profit. This is why many silly things are felonies. 

Second media hysteria creating a series of "named laws" named after a specific person. The assorted registries were created after public outcry due to a supposed plague of  reoffenders. This goes against the original idea that people could be reformed. This is responsible partially for the explosion in prison populations since the 1970's. Some people are put on lists for rather silly reasons. There are registered sex offenders whom themselves were minors when they were put on the list due to parental pressure.

Third vague laws which allow option one to exploit option 2 creating a permanent stock of prison populations.

There are more reason but these three fit so nicely together.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because sending people to prison is a culmination of many factors. The reasons why we as a society sentence people are, essentially:

Punishment

Deterrance, both general (i.e. to stop the community from committing offences) and specific (i.e. to stop the offender re-offending)

Protection for the community

Rehabilitation

Denunciation (i.e. saying "this conduct is something that we as a society don't like or condone")

and Reparation, or the concept of 'just deserts' (i.e. the government determines that the felon's conduct is so heinous that they deserve a punishment relevant to the crime and one that is well beyond the potentially-awardable civil damages)

As such, it's difficult to say that the aim of the prison system is just to 'reintegrate felons into society', as it's really ... well, not to. The concept of rehabilitation is very separate from reintegration and should be really emphasised when discussing the future of released felons.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: The prison system has several goals, and often they conflict with each other.

Rehabilitation.

Punishment.

Detering crime.

Protecting society.

Branding felons is primarily about the last 3, but it hurts the first one.  Nobody wants a former pedofile working at a daycare center or an embezzler handling their finances.  So keeping records of felons protects society.  Knowing that ypu may lose certain rights and have a more difficult life can deter someone from choosing a life of crime.  And it is a permanent form of punishment.  But yes, it makes it more difficult to reintegrate back into society and if you can't get a job you are more likely to turn to crime.  Also the deterent effect varies greatly from crime to crime and is pretty non existant for things like rape and murder.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: I did a long time in prison. 27 years plus a couple pre-trial confinement.  There is little effort towards rehabilitation.  You get out, and either re-offend or try to pick up the pieces and move on.  
The best a convicted felon can hope for is a toehold in society, a means by which they can sustain themselves and the basic needs like shelter, food, and security.  You find a low level job...if you're lucky...and gradually claw your way to some sort of normalcy.  You can either keep up the good fight, or, as has happened to a few of my friends, decide after a while that the outside world isn't feasible, and reoffend just to get back to three hots and a cot on the inside.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: *They* aren't. Too many criminals in the past screwed it up for everyone. Kind of like how you watch your ass in a bus station, or tape it shut around a car salesman.

An honestly reformed criminal, given the right motivation and interview, can land a job. If anything many tend to work harder, to compensate for the stigma of being a felon.

But there will always be Lamar and his 'fuck tha police' attitude, even at age 50, making any and all ex-felons look like they happily stoop to his level.

No, I'm not a felon. *I* never got caught. =P
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Like the top comment states the prison system isn't there to "fix" the criminal. 

But I don't think the main purpose is for punishment either.

I think at it's core, the main purpose for the prison system is public safety - to protect the majority of law-abiding citizens from dangerous / unwanted individuals. The state tries to put criminals somewhere where they can't harm the rest of the community (directly or indirectly).
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: As has been said before, that's not the aim of the American prison system, though it really should be. I can tell you from personal experience that getting caught up in the system makes life extremely difficult for you afterwards and really ends up making a life of crime a shining alternative. It's one reason repeat offenders are so common.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: If you want an interesting perspective on what prisons can be like when rehabilitation is made the primary goal, have a look at this show: _URL_1_
It's a look at various prisons throughout Scandinavia from the perspective of a retired American prison warden. It's in Swedish with English subtitles.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Two things: One, the aim of the prison system is to make money and, two, the stigma makes it harder to get a job, therefore easier to get back into prison.  Follow the money.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: For those who understand French and would rather watch a short well-documented and well-animated [video](_URL_2_) on the topic
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: [I FINALLY HAVE A RELEVANT VIDEO AND THE POST ISN'T SEVERAL HOURS OLD ALREADY!] (_URL_3_)
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because justice and revenge have become so intertwined.

Its almost impossible to separate feelings from logic when it comes to victims of crime. A mother who has her son killed by a drunk driver would want him to feel the pain she feels. I can see why completely, its part of being human.

The way I see it there are two types of criminals, those who break the law and dont care and those who do it and do. The ones who dont care is what prison should be for. Get these people to understand the negative effects they have on the people around them, try to change them to become functioning members of society.

In the case of the other type of person, the crime they commit is likely to haunt them for the rest of their life. Locking them up is going to ruin the rest of their life. From a logical standpoint this additional suffering does nothing, it does not reverse the crime, all it does it cause more suffering, however to suggest not punishing people who commit crimes is outrageous in the face of feelings.

Prison should be to keep people who will do harm to others away from society. There should be something else for those criminals who truly regret what they did and would not do it again, what that is I dont know. But to think that a professional criminal who has no problem beating up old people and stealing their money would have a similar punishment to someone who speeds on their way to work and doesnt pay the fine is ludicrous.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: It's REPUTATION. and it IS important. You MIGHT get a break, depending on your age and past history, you might have to leave town and start over.

Stupid people never seem to consider these things (among others) as valuable assets to protect. In fact, they seem to DEMAND that they be forgiven (a predatory attitude).

There are PLENTY of opportunities for SOME felons, just not ALL opportunities. You're a thief? FORGET working in a bank, etc

The thing many don't get is THEY have to DEMONSTRATE (over time) a commitment to law abiding and SELF CONTROL, they have lost or never possessed.

Life is not "paint by numbers" and some people forgive, while others do not, some trust, others won't. that is NOT their fault. That's the burden of the criminal to bear. The sooner they realize that the sooner they MIGHT get a chance to work their way back (some have).

You are NOT owed a "break" OR admittance in company with GOOD people, just because you "did your  time".

It's ALL their fault and THEIR consequences. NOT society's.

People should THINK before they act. Ignore that at YOUR peril!!!

I'm SICK of felons claming society OWES them something. We don't owe you SHIT.

About the ONLY felons I would forgive are druggies. Since I would LEGALIZE that stuff (no victim) unless a victim is involved.

Predator type people would have an almost INFINITE row to hoe before I would EVER associate with them.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Let's say you're the big boss of the jail, and your dad pays you $5 for every bad guy you have in your jail. How hard do you think you'll work to try to make sure none of those bad guys ever come back to jail? Wouldn't you *want* the bad guys to keep coming back?

Now keep in mind, your dad loves you. He's the one in charge, but you're very close to him, and that money he gives you is money he gets for free from everyone else. Do you think he's going to want to change things so that those bad guys have an easy time getting a job and staying out of trouble? Or do you think he's going to want them to have a hard time so that they stay bad guys and he gets to give his son money all the time?

EDIT: So the tl;dr "not like I'm 5" answer comes down to: because prisons are businesses, and their goal is not rehabilitation or reintegration, it's to make money. You don't make money with an empty prison, and if someone doesn't have a fair chance when they get out of prison, they're much more likely to re-offend. And that's good for business.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: There is 2 big schools of thought on criminal law. One being classical and other one positivist.(3rd school merges both of these) The classical school accepts that "free will" exists and a crime is an action of "ill will". Hence if a criminal choses to commit crime, he must be punished. The strength of punishment is parallel to the consequences they have created.

Positivist school says that will power is not a thing and if someone breaks the law, it is because they are ill. They must be treated. However they also accept that those "ill" people oppose danger to society. Hence instead of punishment they defend "security measures". The strength of security is parallel to dangers they present to society. So unique security measure must be defined for each unique criminal. 

Now modern criminal law merges both of these ideas togather. It is true that we do not punish to hurt criminals anymore. However we can not follow positivist school because it is impossible to treat the number of criminals there is with resources we have.

Long story short, this discussion is the core of criminal law. It is a discussion of trade offs. Both has its benefits and both has its inpracticalities.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: because employers get to choose who they want to hire.  

____________________________
even if there was some bullshit law making it illegal to ask if you're a felon you have a resume with a 10 year blank spot its not going to go well for you regardless.          
you may have served your term and the state considers it settled but employers look at your history and if you've already proven yourself untrustworthy or dangerous of course people aren't going to want to trust you, spend time with you, or have you represent them.    (its not illegal to ask because...well resumes.  schools, past jobs, why you left those jobs, references, ect.  things that *aren't* crimes get to follow you for life...why should murder be special?)


"do i want the applicant with a decent resume, the thief/embezzler, or the guy whos been out of the field for several years and stabbed his last boss"            
its not some conspiracy by the entire prison system9_9  occam's razor, which is simpler.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: It's not the prison system; it's the employment practices of the companies that are hiring, along with the availability of one's criminal record. 99.9 percent of job applications ask if the applicant has been convicted of any crime that has resulted in jail/prison time, and they also do a background check. If the applicant has been convicted of a felony, many companies will deem that person as a bad candidate and/or too risky to hire. The only way I see that being taken out of the equation, with the idea being that one's debt to society has been paid, is for criminal records only being accessible to law enforcement, the court system, the government, and those companies doing sensitive work that entails national security, with a security clearance being required, maybe with case by case exceptions being allowed.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Wow, I can't believe the answers here.  Prison and the justice system has the goal of prevention.  That's it, the entire point is to prevent anti social behavior. They are putting away people who are hurting the society, and mostly just trying to deter people from breaking the law.  

The point is not to punish criminals, that is silly and emotional, it's to prevent crime by showing what happens when you are caught.

Edit: The USA does not spend tax payer money to punish criminals, the entire point is to deter crime, by showing what happens if you are caught.  There is also the aspect of keeping some dangerous people isolated from the public, but that is not the main point of the entire justice system.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: It has been stated many times here, but I will repeat. There is NO rehab in prison, there was back in the day, but now virtually no skills are taught and you cannot get an education (GED does not rate as an education) no one comes out of prison "better" OR Rehabilitated. Prison is about revenge, period. Prison is mostly filled with non-violent drug offenders, the "To protect society" is horseshit, locking up a drug addict or dealer opens the slot for another dealer or addict. It creates another criminal in effect. Finally NO OTHER FIRST WORLD COUNTRY DOES THIS, it's an American disgrace, sold to you by coward, "tough on crime" politicians, and the prison industrial complex, which only farms human warehousing.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: There are several purposes to punishment. I am a criminal lawyer and the following is actually an instruction that is given to the jury for them to consider when deciding a punishment:

"You should bear in mind that our society recognizes five principal reasons for the sentence of those who violate the law.  They are rehabilitation of the wrongdoer, punishment of the wrongdoer, protection of society from the wrongdoer, [. . .], and deterrence of the wrongdoer and those who know of (his) (her) crime(s) and (his) (her) sentence from committing the same or similar offenses.  The weight to be given any or all of these reasons, along with all other sentencing matters in this case, rests solely within your discretion."
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: The concept you're talking about is a product of the Enlightenment. The US began with strong influences by that school of thought, but in the 1980's evangelicals entered the political arena and started supporting right wingers. That was the end of the Greatest Generation and induced an overall decline in America's standing in the world. With Bush II the development took full effect and practically broke the US hegemony, because the european nations realized that a cultural gap made it more difficult to work with the USA. The US was conceived as a child of the enlightenment, but it turned into the embodiment of the Old Testament.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Well primarily I think this is only in the US that such a rule exists but I think it's to do with humans and our shunning of social taboos.

Say that you were a transgender in the 17th Century and your gender was available for all employers with your records to see. Even if you are the best person in town, they'll shy away from hiring you because, well, you're a transgender. Even if you went for those horrible gender therapies, you still would possibly not get a job.   

It's a cruel world, but we are humans.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because the criminal justice system has little to with justice and not much to do with actual crimes. (Ever committed a felony and never got caught or if you were, not punished? Most of us have.) The "criminal justice" system is about disenfranchising the poor and minorities to strengthen the power base of the white, male, corporate power structure. Take away their rights, take away their right to vote, stigmatize them so they will never be anything other than a consumer for corporate products, never an owner of anything.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Consider that in business, you ideally want your customers to come back again and again. Then consider that private prisons are businesses. Then consider how easy it is for them to just kinda pretend to be aiming to rehabilitate. Now look back at the prison system, and it all makes disturbing sense. Imo this is at least part of why gangs and drugs seem to be completely tolerated, what better way to ensure the prisoner keeps in contact with their criminal side (or gets even more drawn in).
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: In rare cases it works. One time being locked up was enough for me. I reasoned that if i didn't want to go back i better change everything about myself. I got sober, cut off all ties to my criminal friends and worked hard to get myself a decent career. I'm 25, became a felon at 19 and in that time. I got sober, started working in a good field, bought a house and started a family. 

Oh also im white so that probably is a big factor.....
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: As I'm sure it's been said already, that is notnot the aim of the US system. The aim is to punish and make an example so as to discourage future crime. You see that someone's life is branded and has a hard time turning their future around even for relatively small things, so you hopefully would be deterred from committing a crime.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: I always thought that the prison should be a way of rehabilitating/educating people so that they will not make the same mistakes again. 
I think everybody can make a mistake. It's just that most of the people are too precious/hypocrite about themselves to even imagine that. Naturally, they think they are better than the people that end up in prison.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: I've never gotten this either. To be honest, I'm against the whole 'registered sex offender' thing as well. 

Either you are rehabilitated to the point where you can function in society, in which case you are released, or you are not, and you continue to be treated. Once you're out, your slate should be wiped clean from that crime, forever.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Hiring felons is awesome. I can get away with paying them less than a fraction of what they are worth because I know no one else would hire them. They know that they have to be on their absolute best behavior at all times, otherwise their meal ticket disappears and their parole officer may get a phone call.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Some see the aim of the prison system as neither punishment nor rehabilitation, instead they see it as a system for protecting society from criminals.  All of the checks to see if someone was a criminal are not about re-integrating them or punishing them, it is done from the perspective that others should be protected from criminals.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: That may have been the aim at one point, but nowadays, if you wind up in prison, it's best (for them) that you stay there... most US prisons are profit-driven private-owned things, and the more inmates they have, the more money they make.  It is not in their best interests to let you out of the system.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Keep in mind the employer's side of this.  Prisoner's arent a protected class so employers are free to discriminate against them.  If you ran a business, would you hire someone who had spent significant time in prison?  What do you think the odds of a prisoner having the strongest resume out of all available candidates?
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: And thus, by *reductio ad absurdum* the premise that the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society was proven to be false.

American prison system is a semi-privatized industry that removes people from society for a fee, that's all there is to it. Holding people in prison for profit.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Hahahaha that's the problem, the aim is to no longer reintegrate felons into society... because if you try to reintegrate felons into society that will result in no profit for private prisons and it will mean less money going into the system that overpays cops, lawyers, judges, etc.. it's now a revenue system.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: it's not limited to felonies.  a misdemeanor on your record can fuck your life up as well.  simply getting charged with something that winds up being dismissed stays on your record too, unless you pay to have it expunged.  you really can't be too careful when it comes to your record.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Money. 
You rehabilitate someone they won't get arrested again. You put them in a situation where they can't get a job or learn from their mistakes then they resort to crime and you as a prison owner get all that money.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: I work in the prison system, i have had numerous inmates tell me that if a person spends more than 3 years in the correctional system they should never be let out because they are a greater danger to society
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: My husband is a felon, he doesn't have a very hard time getting a job.  He is a construction supervisor that works at a lot of refineries, HOWEVER his felony does prevent him from working FOR the refinery directly.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: lmao as if you'd want a thief or murderer in your business. don't be a hypocrite you left wing cuntbag, go save the prisoners that get free yourself. See how long you'll last before they kill/rape/steal from you
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: There are three basic reasons for locking people up:


Protecting us from them

Punishing them

Reforming them


The answer to your question is that the American system does mostly the first two and not the third.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because "fuck these guys, let's lock them in cages like animals when they really are usually suffering from addiction issues and mental health issues" doesn't really sound as righteous.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: In a private economy, employers weigh the negatives and positives of all applicants. Employers don't like criminal records. This is in no way the fault of the prison system.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Actually the aim of the American prison system is to make money for the already wealthy by taking public tax dollars to incarcerate the poor and disadvantaged.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Imagine how you would feel if you couldn't find a job and had never broken the law but an inmate was hired with help from the government...
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: I don't mean to be a dick, but it's really *naive* to think that the aim of our prison system is to reintegrate felons into society.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: The aim of the prison system in the United States is to make a profit, as has become the case with almost everything else.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because their need to rejoin society is counterbalanced by society's need to protect itself (from those with an ostensibly  proven propensity to be dangerous/dishonest).
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because the for profit prison industry has lobbied to make sure these people are likely to end up back in jail.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Since the US prison system us largely privatized the real incentive is for them to make more criminals not less.
question: if the aim of the prison system is to reintegrate felons into society why are they branded for life in such a way that it makes it nearly impossible to get a job?[removed] answer: Because the prison system is a for-profit institution that's wants a returning customer base.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Salt sucks the water out of the cells via osmosis. Compare with drying or smoking meat. Bacteria growth is highly restricted in dehydrated environment.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: High salinity is general disruptive to cell membranes due to osmotic pressure. While *some* bacteria can survive in the cruelest of conditions (heat, salinity, pH extremes and so forth), these bacteria are generally harmless to humans. Remember that pathological bacteria evolve to thrive in the base physiological conditions of their hosts.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: There are bacteria that survive salt, however. Lactobacillus is one, and one that is good for us! We can preserve vegetables  with salt or salt brine because the salt kills other bacteria, the lactobacillus grows and excretes acid, which makes pickles! Or kimchi, sauerkraut, etc. These vegetables can be kept in cool storage but not necessarily the fridge. However they will continue fermenting, so if you like the taste then putting them in the fridge stops the lactobacillus from multiplying and making it more sour.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Bacteria that can live in salty places can't live inside you because you're not salty so they are rarely of danger to you.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Hey guys. Food scientist here... Salt is actually one of the world's oldest and most used preservatives! 

ELI5: Several reasons for this:

1.) Salt has an "ionic" strength or the ability to change the structure of other molecules (Na+ ion)

2.) Salt binds well with water (H20). Bacteria need water to metabolize (continue living). If that water is being taken up by salt it cannot be used by the bacteria to reproduce (and thus will eventually die)

3.) SOME Bacteria can live in salt, but not thrive in salt. Most cannot do this at all. Salt disrupts the osmosis (water pressure) of the cell membranes (outside of the cell; think the outside walls of a house)

4.) Salt can affect pH and make it unlivable for bacteria

5.) But most importantly! NOT ALL BACTERIA ARE BAD (pathogenic)! You come into contact all the time with bacteria and they don't always kill you.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Can you dry someone to death by locking them in a pit of salt?
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: They can survive, but they go into stasis. 

Salt (and sugar (and some other things)) pull water from the environment.

It can actually pull water right out of a cell. 

Simple organisms - single celled especially - can often go into hibernation, until there's more water available, but they can't live normally, and they definitely can't multiply - so even if there's *some* bacteria, or people have been touching it with unwashed hands, it's still good to eat.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Water can pass through bacterial cell membranes pretty easily, salt doesn't. If you were to lay a dry paper towel on top of a wet paper towel, they would eventually equalize to both be similarly wet.

Salted meat is a lower percentage water than bacterial cells, so the water moves to try to equalize the concentration of water on both sides \(and dilute the salt\). Bacteria and some other pathogens can't handle losing so much water.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Living in salt levels that are so high is hard, so only very special organisms can do it.

Where can you find bacteria that are able to do this? Some place like the dead sea maybe, or in a salt lake. The dead sea is about 10x saltier than the ocean, and the salt lake in utah can sometimes be about 8x saltier than the ocean. The bacteria that live in these places evolved to thrive in those environments, and since they did, they had no need to get their nutrients from animals, and so they never evolved any mechanisms to infect animals. 

The bacteria who live in these places likely branched off from the bacteria that infect humans a very long time ago, and that is probably true because it would take them a very long time to evolve the parts and functions necessary to survive in such conditions. Since these few species have spent so long working on not dying in high salt places, they havent spent much time learning how to infect animals, so arent very good at it.

Additionally, many of the microorganisms that can live in these places are not even bacteria, they are an ancient relative of bacteria called Archea. As far as I can tell, there are no known species of Archea that can infect humans, and the evidence that they could is scarce.

For more information on Archea and their potential for causing human disease, you can read the following paper:

Role of Archea in Human Disease, Rustam I Aminov. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2013
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Salt is to cells what the the wrong goblet the guy uses in The Last Crusade is to the human body.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Salt suck the water out of the bateria cell. Since their cell cant filter out salt like human skin so it lose water and die.

I would love to explain in a more precisely manner and leave the above as tldr but my english are probaly at about 9th grade or so and I lack a lot of science-related words in english to describe the whole thing.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Yes, bacteria and fungi are killed by the salt, because the salt effectively dehydrates them to death.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Bacteria are little bags of water. The skin of the bag is actually not impermeable! How does water not leak out then? Well, water likes to have stuff into it (salt, sugar, proteins, DNA), that is why we consider it as a good solvent.

So, a bacteria has stuff inside that dilute well into water. If you put that bacteria in water, it will suck in water until it is full (like an air balloon). Then the bacteria skin will be under tension, trying to push water out. That create pressure inside which, at equilibrium, push water out as much as it tries to go in.

If you put bacteria into pure water, they will inflate, sometimes even rupture. If you put them into salt water, they will deflate.

When water goes out of the bacteria, the diluted stuff stay inside while pure water goes out. (Note, that's how we make pure water!) And the inside ends up with a higher concentration of stuff. (Bigger stuff to water ratio) Usually, this goes on until the inside of the bacteria has same salinity as outside (minus skin pressure).

Well, if there is so much salt outside that water can't even dilute it all, the bacteria will end-up completely dessicated. A bag of bacteria skin and some stuff in it.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Bacteria 'generally' need oxygen, a safe pH, moisture, and favorable temperature to survive/grow. Salt is hydrophilic, so it removes the moisture from things that have moisture. When you salt something, you are technically starting a 'cooking' process. Check out books on cooking theory, it will open your mind as to what kinds of things you can do to create awesome dishes. Learning a solid cooking theory is kind of like learning the fundementals of how to draw. Once you learn your theory, you can apply it to all sorts of food based on what they are made up of (is it a watery veggie, is it a starchy veggie, is it a solid fruit, does it break down when you add heat very quickly, etc) and it will make it easier to cook things that you haven't worked with before. You can use theory to really focus on creativity rather than copying things you find online without knowing why you add the salt to and wrap the sliced zuchinni with paper towels before grilling it.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Salt is used in two primary ways to preserve foods, either in granule form or in brine, which is a salt-and-water solution. A ham, for example, might be cured with salt, and cucumbers are preserved (and turned into pickles) with brine. Curing with salt granules, known as dry curing, means applying salt to the outside of a cut of meat and storing it for several weeks. It's one of the most ancient ways of curing meats. Modern curing can involve injecting meat with salt brine.

Whatever the form of salt that's used, the mineral not only preserves foods but also prevents bacteria from growing, including foodborne pathogens such as salmonella, which can cause food poisoning, typhoid fever and other serious problems.

Salt inhibits bacteria in a variety of ways. It's a disrupter that wreaks havoc in microbes, interrupting their enzymes and chipping away at their DNA. It most often works through dehydration, removing many of the water molecules that bacteria need to live and grow. Water molecules in food are measured in terms of product water activity, a number that signifies the free water molecules present. Before salt preservation, many fresh foods have 0.99 product water activity. The product water activity is lowered when salt dehydrates the food through the process of osmosis. In essence, the salt around the outside of the food draws water molecules out and replaces them with salt molecules until the amount of salt is equal inside and out.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Yes. Some bacteria can live in salt, but they need lots of salt to live, so they can't live in you, because you're not salty enough.  The bacteria that make us sick tend to be either the ones that can grow on/inside us, or the ones that produce poison to kill the bacteria inside us. The salty ones are totally alien to all of us, so they don't need to make poisons (because they aren't competing with the bacteria in you), and they can't live inside you because you aren't salty enough.

I'm a bit late to this, but I think this is how I'd actually relate this idea to a five year old.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: The fact is bacteria can live in most any environment.  The key is that that they tend not to have a wide range of adaptability.  So, the bacteria that can live in high concentrations of salt are not the ones that can survive in the human body.  

There are some bacteria we have trouble studying just because it's hard to grow them on growth media's.  

The answer is simply yes, there are bacteria that grow everywhere, but most are not clinically significant and will not harm you
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: Food usually goes bad as a result of mold/fungus, not because of bacteria, so the premise is partially flawed.  

Things that are dry can't rot or decay, because the processes that cause rotting requires moisture.  Thats why Jerky and other dried meats can practially last forever, or why rice/flour or why chips have incredibly long shelf lives if you've ever tried to eat a 20 year old bag of chips.
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: The inside of the bacteria is less salty than the outside (negative osmotic pressure). Water flows out through the membrane to reach equilibrium (equally salty outside and inside) and the bacterium dries out. You can test this with two salad leaves putting one in fresh water and the other in very salty water. Sugar does the same thing, that's why honey is good for so long
question: Why does salt preserve foods like meat? Can't bacteria live in salt? answer: It actually has to do with what is called water activity. So, bacteria needs water to live. But in high salt or even sugar environments, all the water is bound to the solutes, so the water molecules are not available for use. Think about a bottle of syrup vs. A box of waffles. The syrup has way more water, but the waffles still spoil faster.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: You can trademark a brand, not a recipe..  I think that's the gist of it.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Typically store brand items are made by the same company that produces the name brand item. For example, I forget which one, but either Kroger or Walmart brand yogurt is actually Dannon just with a store brand label.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: For a five year old:

Your friend Bobby has just created this really cool color by mixing paints and he doesn't want anyone else to know how he did it. Everyone else starts mixing paints to get close to the same color as Bobby but it's never exactly the same color. Bobby doesn't care because he knows he and everyone else knows that he is the only one who can make that color. Eventually someone finds out exactly how to make the color through trial and error, this makes Bobby mad so he complains to the teacher who tells Bobby there is nothing that can be done.

Now Sally on the other hand Found out how to make paint sparkly by adding glitter. She tells the teacher and everyone else how to do it on the condition that no one else will do until the end of the month to which everyone agrees. But sally finds out that Pete lied and started adding glitter to his paint so she tells the teacher and Pete gets in trouble.

For an adult:

The first story is an example of [Trade Secret](_URL_1_) which has it's own set of rules. But if a trade secret is found out through legitimate means then it is perfectly legal. While the second example is that of a [Patent](_URL_0_) where the creator is able to reserve the right of production for a set period and afterwards anyone is allowed to manufacture it. Also the teacher is the Government.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Common food and food ingredients are not legally protected. I can't make my own Fried Chicken, declare it a "MashCaster Special", and then claim Popeye's is infringing on my property. But this also means I can take certain ingredients, mix them together and end up with something that tastes quite similar to Dr. Pepper. I can't sell it as Dr. Pepper, but I can give it my own brand name and sell it. This is what Wal-Mart does with a lot of products,
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: There are different types of intellectual property protections.  Preventing someone from making a product that you designed falls under the protection of patents.  The idea here is that if you come up with a new design (an invention) then you get to be the only one who makes that design for some period of time.  In exchange you have to tell everyone how you did it.  The idea here is to encourage people to invest in coming up with new ideas.

Store brand items are pretty much never covered by patentsthe time to patent "sugar, water, carbonation, and flavoring" has long since come and gone, if that was ever a patentable idea in the first place.  Using your personal favorite ratio of those ingredients doesn't give you something new enough to patent.  Same goes for pretty much any product.  It's always things that have been around for a long time.

Since patents aren't going to get in the way that leaves the other two areas of intellectual property:  copyright and trademarks.  Copyright protection serves a similar purpose to patents, but it covers creative workswriting, music, pictures, etc.  You get to be the only one who can sell your creative work for some period of time, but after a while the copyright expires and the creative work goes into the public domainanyone can use it.  (However, copyright protection keeps on getting extended, largely thanks to Disney trying to protect their old works).  The idea here is that the producer of the creative work gets to profit from their work, but eventually things go into the public domain and anyone is free to take the work and build off of it (much in the same way that Disney built off of the public domain work of, say, Cinderella).  

Copyright isn't even particularly relevant to generic brands, so that only leaves the final protection:  trademark.  Trademarks serve a different purpose from patents and copyright entirely.  It's not about encouraging people to produce more stuff (inventions or creative works); it's about trying to make it so that consumers know what they're getting.  If I buy a 2-liter bottle with a red label and the scrawling white letters with two bit "C"s on it then I expect to get Coca-Cola.  There's a certain quality that I expect from that label.  If I get it home and taste it and it tastes like crap then I'll be upset because I was misled.

The goal with trademarks is to let companies build up a reputation that consumers can trust.  The Coca-Cola Company goes to great lengths to ensure a consistent quality in their products, which consumers come to rely on.  If someone else makes a product that is packaged with the same markings as real Coca-Cola but with a lower quality then it will sell off of Coca-Cola's reputation which is then damages.

Thus, the defining test when evaluating trademark claims is "would a consumer think that they are getting the trademark owner's product when they actually aren't?"  Dr Thunder may be packaged in a generally similar color to Dr Pepper.  They both use names that start with Dr.  However, they are different enough that consumers will not buy Dr Thunder and think they're getting Dr Pepper.  Thus, there is no trademark violation.

It's likely that the store brand is being made by the brand-name company, too, but even if it's not there is still no intellectual property infringement.  You could start your own company and make "Mountain Mist" soda that gets sold in a yellow/green bottle.  You can even copy the recipe for Mountain Dew completely (if you can get your hands on it) and there's no infringement.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Dr. Thunder taste way off than Dr. Pepper. I bet in wide blind study people would pick DR. Pepper. Provided it have not sit on the shelf that long. It has smooth creamy overtones that Dr.thunder can not reproduce. Any FYI the original coke formula was found in a old news paper. I am going to make it at home and see how it comes out.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Are you saying that Dr. Thunder is not a totally uniquely invented product?
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: A lot of the times, the suppliers of the "No Name" product are the same suppliers of the named product.

For example: Coca-cola makes it's own cola, wal-mart approaches Coca-cola and asks them to develop for them a similar Cola Product under the Wal Mart brand.

Coca -Cola agrees to do it, tweaks the formula a smidge and sells it to Wal-Mart. Either way the company wins.

If Coca-cola says no, then Wal-Mart tenders the business out to Say Pepsi.

What I found since graduating and working is that everyone is in bed with everyone and everything I learned is shit.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Contrary to what a lot of people are saying, its usually not just rebrands of the exact same product. Typically the "generic" item did indeed come off the same production line, but didn't meet the quality assurance of the main product. Its still ketchup, but not what Heinz wants their ketchup to taste like, or is the wrong texture/consistency. This is why name brands always taste the same, but generics differ from lot to lot.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: I work for a major grocery chain warehouse. Store brands, at least in the cases I've asked about, are made by the same company, but don't quite meet that company's standards. For instance, if A1 steak sauce made a batch that was slightly subpar, they would package it as store brand and sell it at a discount to the retailers
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Sometimes it IS the name brand companies making them.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: This is the reason why Aldi is doing so well in the UK. I Read an article about it actually, I'll try find it.

It's an article in the Daily Mail so I can't promise that there won't be racism:

_URL_2_
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Here is an example.

Heinz sells cheap $0.99 Ketchup for $2.99. Why? Because people pay more for the name. For the security of knowing that this ketchup will be good and not cause you to get sick.

Walmart has a bunch of money and wants to bring people into their stores. What to do?

Hmm how about buy a bunch of $0.99 ketchup and sell it for $1.29. 

**These prices are not exact and the company names I am using are just to help people visualize the scene. These are not fact but they are close enough to help explain why.**

Here is why said Walmart does this.

Now that people have saved $1.70 by buying the Walmart brand ketchup which even though slightly different it essentially taste the same; they go ahead and buy 2 other items that are "cheap" because "They saved soo much money".

Walmart in this example has done enough research to either break-even or lose money on their "off-brand" knowing that psychologically people will buy more than intended because they "saved money".

It's kind of like getting a Free app. Some Free apps make more money off of ads than if they would make you pay $1.

These cheap brands are there to only make you buy more stuff because these companies know your heart is racing from saving money and that you will buy more stuff because your blood is pumping. 

This is from a Marketing/Sales perspective.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Certain goods are made by shared facilities.  Name brands don't always own their own factories.  Many factories work independently and are hired by the brands to product the products.  So for instance, a single factory might make every single green bean product you see on the shelves.  Every single can, every single frozen bag came from the same place, but there are certain variations to the process (ingredients, recipe) required by the name brand in order to make it "theirs."  However, nothing stops that factory from making their own version of the same product which they then market to stores as house brands.   They are typically forbidden to use the exact recipe as the name brands, but they know exactly what it is.  So if they just change one thing, they can make additional money above and beyond what the name brands are already paying them for fabrication.  Its a great way to reduce waste and help boost the bottom line.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Actually, anyone can try and copy Dr. Pepper, Coke, and even KFC's herb and spices recipes.  These are considered trade secrets and are not protected by law of copying.  If you actually went in to one of these manufacturers and stole the actual recipe, then you would be breaking the law.  But you can try and copy anyone's recipe and sell it as your own.  

But the key is you cannot steal any of their copywrited or trademarked material.  For example, Dr. Thunder name or Sam's Cola name, instead of selling it as Dr. Pepper or Coca Cola.  

A trade secret, unlike a patent, trademark, copywrite, is only protected by the company/person keeping that secret.  Once the secret is out it is no longer protected.  

I am sure I missed some details, but this is the jest of it.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: A lot of store brand items are actually the exact same product. I worked for a bakery factory that makes Mrs Freshley, Blue Bird, etc, name brand baked goods. We did not change the recipe for Walmart and Kroger brand, just switched out the paper. I know that's not the case for everything, but if it looks the same and tastes the same, then it's the exact same thing. Legally I think they have contracts with those companies to sell their products under a store brand name, but I don't know how that works.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: You'd be surprised how many "generics" are actually owned by the brand name company. I work for a merchandising company and I will say for example, beef jerky is widely owned by Jack Links. All of Great Value beef jerky and another company named World's Kitchen is just Jack Link's jerky in a different bag. In general beef jerky is an expensive snack, however, if you notice Great Value is only 10% cheaper than Jack Link's? That's because they are controlling the market at Wal-Mart.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Some of you are missing the bigger point. The store brand items are just that. Store brands. Therefore they can set the prices to whatever they like, which is generally more competitively priced than name brands. The name brand has a couple of choices at this point. Accept that, or not sell at that store. I can promise you coca cola, or Pepsi won't pull their product off their major retailers shelves because that is where they get a ton of revenue.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Generic (private label) products are often made by the manufacturer of the branded product.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: You can change a few ingredients and re release it as a new product.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Skimmed through the 500+ comments, didn't see this come up.

I understand how the recipe can either be released, patented, and protected for a maximum time (20 years?) or you can keep it a secret and have no protection for it, and hope nobody ever figures it out. What I don't understand is how every knockoff item has a very similar name to the original, and usually similar packaging, but doesn't get in trouble for it. Dr. Pepper is probably the easiest example to use, with knockoff brands like Dr. Skipper, Dr. Thunder, Dr. Right, The Dr., Dr. Bold, Dr. K, etc.

How do these brands get away with copying everything from Dr. Pepper, from the flavor to the name, even the dark red packaging that literally all of the "Dr Beverage" sodas come in? Seems like Dr. Pepper would have a case against someone blatantly copying their product like this, at least I would think so.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: I work for a packaging machinery company.  I can't confirm any of this regarding Mountain Lightning vs. Mountain Dew, etc....however, there are many companies who sell their products (to Wal-Mart, for example) and just repackage them.

For instance, the box of cookies with a "Great Value" or "Kroger" store-brand will be the exact same product as the "name brand" product further down on the shelf.  They will come off the same line, but will be packaged into different cartons.  Again, I don't really have any dealing with soda products, but many, many food items with store branding are just name brand product repackaged and sold cheaper.  I see this all the time.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: When I was still in high school I worked at two particular factories. One did cans of corn for home consumption, the other did Ketchup. 

In both factories the only thing that changes between the cans of "name brand" and "generic" was the label. We would stop the line for 15 minutes when the label guy switched the stickers and bam, line kept moving and we now are making generic corn. I was the guy who watched the corn as it was going in, well watched the machine that put it in and from what I could tell nothing changed.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Actually, more often than not, the same company that makes the brand name product also has a contract with the supermrket chain to make their private lable product since supermarkets are not in the business of  production.
I work at a company thar makes breakfast cereals. We we have our own brand name products, but we also produce breakfast cereals for Walmart under their private label brand. And both products are exactly the same, there is no difference in the recipe at all.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: I've actually worked for the Walmart home office in Bentonville AR.  Those Great Value brands are actually made by the same companies that put out the name brand.  Walmart pretty much blackmails them by saying if they don't package their goods with the GV label they won't sell their product.  Now this GV labeled product may be of a lesser quality than the name brand (floor sweepings) but still made in the same plant.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Sometimes, the cheap stuff and the expensive stuff is even made by the same company. 

Rich people buy the expensive version, poor people buy the cheap version.  The company makes money either way.

If they only made the cheap version then rich people would be paying less than what they could afford. If they only made the expensive version then poor people wouldn't buy it at all.

So they make both.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: I worked at Sainsbury's (supermarket in the UK) and i was told that the "value" products were made by big companies but used cheaper ingredients and packaging but are largely made the same way.

Things like milk and bread are also distributed by the same guys, they just repackage depending on the supermarket. When i was at Sainsbury's, we would accidentally get milk for Co-op stores all the time.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: One of the reasons : ole and leo (the biscuits) are made in the same factory and are exactly the same , but because some people want a cheap product with less specialities they can buy the cheap version. And the expensive one for the people that want a status symbol.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: As a longtime dewhead, I disagree about any knockoff. Really doesn't taste the same. Most generic soda tastes way sweeter than the original to me, and the older I get, the less I like really sweet beverages. Even Dew I can only handle from the fountain these days.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Actually, most of those brands are produced by the exact same factory that makes the original, though usually by a subsidiary or related company. Sometimes they will change the ratio of an ingredient ever so slightly, but basically it's the same drink/snack but with different packaging.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: In addition, because Wal-Mart and supermarkets are such large buyers, they can force companies to manufacture these "private label" (generic brand) products -- if they refuse, Wal-mart can threaten to take their business elsewhere, which will likely put a huge dent in the manufacturer's sales.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Well the thing with Walmart is it's manufactured by the same company. For example, Great Value yogurt is made by Dannon. Great Value beef jerky is made by Jack Links. I think it happens a lot with generic brands.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: I worked at a Coca-Cola plant for a few years. We used to actually bottle coke in generic brands. I won't say what supermarket used real coke, but it was a rather large one.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: Oftentimes the offbrand IS the regular brand.  Source: we make private label grocery items sold in Wal Mart.  We make 34% on our stuff and 7% on the private label stuff.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: A lot of super markets will offer up preferential shelf positioning in exchange for a major brand to make their generic product with a slightly different recipe than the name brand.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: you also have to keep in mind that walmart works with companies and even in certain circumstances get the "knock off" product directly from the name brand company. its all bullshit
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: I have heard as well that the name brand companies also produce those off brand product to capitalize on both sides of the market.
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: To mention that a lot of the store brands are made by the same company of the namebrand
question: How is it that companies such as the ones that make generic (Walmart brand) beverages get away with basically copying name brand products? answer: People still drink industrial bilge type pop? Wow!
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: Well, a couple factors.

The first is the fact that you didn't have the new games of today to compare them with.  Obviously if you took DOOM and put it up against Battlefield 4, then DOOM would look awful.  But back in its prime, DOOM was the best of the best.  Those *were* cutting edge graphics and that was a cutting edge game.

The other is imagination.  When you play a game and really get lost in it, then it's like reading a book.  You're not only playing the game and looking at pixels on a screen but you're building this image in your head as well.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: Another factor is you were probably playing them on either a small monitor or a large TV that wasn't very sharp.

In both cases that helps to make low resolution graphics less apparent by smoothing the pixels out. [Here's an image to illustrate](_URL_0_) (edit: make sure you view the image at full size)
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: I also remember the first time I played GTA3, but I remember the bridge being far longer than what it actually is.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: A lot of it boils down to comparative thinking and gradual progression.  Graphics are perpetually increasing in quality, with some combination of improved technique and [Moore's Law](_URL_1_) doing the driving.  We've never, however, meter real time content (e.g. games) against reality; even the most graphically stunning titles today aren't close to photorealistic - you can tell you're playing a game, but it's at the forefront of what can currently be achieved, and that is the standard we care about.  No doubt at some point you'll think that a game made in 2012-4, at the pinnacle of what can currently be achieved is visually stunning, because it exceeds our previous measure for games; you've never seen a game with better graphics.  Similarly, it's easy to remember a game made in 1994 as visually stunning because it did the exact same thing.  Now, you can't really picture the graphics from 20 years ago (unless you have an eidetic memory) so your imagination fills in the blank.  Of course, now when you go back to said older game, it's certainly not visually stunning by modern standards; we're used to considerably better, thus the older game looks terrible, and the gap between your misremembered perception and reality closes sharply.

You can actually demonstrate this process to yourself over a much shorter time scale.  On a decent TV, sit and watch a standard definition channel for a while - rate the picture quality out of 10.  Most people say around 7 or 8.  Swap then to a high definition channel.  You'll probably think it looks a little better, but the difference between SD and HD is mostly minimal, maybe rating it 1 higher at 8-9.  Now swap back to SD and rate it again; you'll find that by comparison to HD it looks awful; far worse than it did before, with most people revising their rating to around a 5.  This is much the same process.

It's quite interesting to consider that even the most visually spectacular games today will be considered retro, or even ugly in a few years time, and people will probably still be talking about this, but using Crysis 3 as the outdated example.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: The biggest factor here is that memory is based on meaning more than actual occurrence.  It's similar to the reason why you often can remember what a movie or a song is about without remembering the name or the exact lyrics.  You remember the story of the game, the characters, and the gameplay most of all because that is the meaning to you; that's what made you fall in love with the game.  The graphics did not convey the game's meaning.  
Now, your mind has those things (characters, gameplay, storyarc) to create a mental image for your memory all of these years later.  What does your mind do?  It sets up those things as accurately as it can and then drapes imagery overtop of it.  This imagery is in a higher detail than the actual graphics of the game, but that doesn't really matter too much because the memory has the correct meaning, similar to how you might not remember what your best friend was wearing at your 10th birthday party, but you remember how he got you a kickass videogame as a gift.  Not the exact details are needed because you got the meaning right.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: In addition to the other reasons listed here, if you played the game on a CRT monitor it will look shittier on a LCD. Same reason that [old consoles look better on CRT.]( _URL_2_)
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: Well they looked less shitty on a 1024x768 monitor than they do on a 1080p HD LCD for a start (not accounting for mods of choose)
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: God I remember playing Perfect Dark on 64.  I felt like those graphics were cutting edge and that there was no way graphics could get any better.  The other day I pulled it out and I felt like I was playing minecraft.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: I remember getting a little chubby for the original tomb raider...  square boobies
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: I've often thought about this. The only conclusion I can come to is because you're comparing the graphics to what you've already played at the that point in time. Thus, any improvements/advancements blew our proverbial socks off and it's that impressed mindset that we remember. How many times I've heard or said, "it almost looks real" is kind of embarrassing in hindsight.
Here's another thought; our minds are maybe geared up to remember other things rather than quality of detail. Like emotions, smell, touch etc. I don't know but when I try to remember situations from years ago, imagery is pretty vague.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: I remember playing Soccer on my commodore 64. I got right up next to the screen and remember thinking it looked just like real life.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: In addition to the stuff others have mentioned, the TV you were usually is actually a factor for games of a certain age.

Cathode-ray tube TVs -- you know, the big chunky ones, pre-LCD -- were a bit blurry. Back in the NES, SNES, and N64 days, developers were actually banking on this blurriness to cover up the harsh lines of early 3D models, and the blurring smoothed out the pixels in pixel-art SNES games. When you play those games on a modern LCD, the harsh lines and square pixels show up with sharp clarity and can look a lot clunkier. If you go into the menus of a retro game emulator, many of them have video filters designed to blur things a little, add scanlines, and otherwise mimic the look of older TVs, which can make a lot of things look, unintuitively, nicer. 

Likewise, the stuff you were comparing those games to was of a similarly low quality. If you were watching your movies on a long-play VHS on a 20" TV, then you would've never really seen a ton of background details, and you would've been used to some blur. So putting on a good N64 game like Perfect Dark wouldn't have seem as far from the movies as it does today, when you've been watching 50" Blu-rays. Some fuzziness and a lack of background detail would just be par for the course.

If anyone out there still has a CRT and an N64 or PS1, try taking a photo of a game running on that setup compared to a screencap of it running on an LCD TV, to show everyone the difference, it's larger than you would think.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: A major part of this was the way CRT televisions worked.

_URL_4_

Dithering on a CRT display worked in such a way that the light from individual pixels would blend over to adjacent pixels.  When you play an old game on a modern display you can see each individual pixel, when in the past they all blended together and colors would seamlessly transition from one to the next.

Earthworm Jim on the Genesis took advantage of this:

_URL_3_

In the bottom of the screen you'll see a series of orange bars spaced evenly apart.  Today this looks horrible, but back then the color would blend with the "blank" space and create a semi-transparent fog effect.

It's the same reason why going back to watch episodes of Seinfeld in standard definition look so much worse; not only are you accustomed to higher standards, but also don't have one of the benefits that come from a CRT display.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: Yes same here, I guess we didnt know any better graphics to compare with, any other thoughts?
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: Your brain is really awesome at filling in details that aren't there. Your memories of games are very low quality, so your brain (being used to reality) fills in far more detail than is really there. 

In the same way that it looks like you can see everything in front of you at high res. Whereas in fact you only see a [small area](_URL_5_) in high res, most things you see low res and your brain fills in the rest.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: You remember the experience more than the graphics. That's what you are really comparing in your mind relative to modern games. Not the graphics. Your memory generally retains feelings better than visual images. Most games that you play even today seem good to you because of how interesting they are to play; not how graphically stimulating they are. This will be the case until you can no longer differentiate the game visuals from reality.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: There are a bunch of replies about the technical stuff here, but I think it's unrelated.

This is kind of the same as the slide that felt huge as a kid, but when you go back as an adult it's just not that impressive. Kids' imaginations make things really impressive.

[Obligatory XKCD](_URL_6_)
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: Maybe because back in the day, screens used to have lower resolution, we didn't have a 1920x1080 screen, but a 640x480 one, I remember playing The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess, and being amazed on how good it looked.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: There's an image been floating around the last few days comparing Lara Croft over the years, the original must have been made with about 15 polygons. But back in 2001 looked quite good.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: It's due to all of the nostalgia. Then you keep replaying the best parts over and over again, only the way you think it was. Ergo with better graphics.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: A) You had smaller tv screens and B) didn't have a comparison point with higher graphic games yet.
question: I remember old games in higher graphics than they actually were. answer: I *always* remember Stunt Race FX looking like absolute shit.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: The industry isn't saying they aren't making boatloads of money. They're saying they could be making bigger boatloads. 

Lets say a movie makes, say, a $1,000,000,000. And lets say that if nobody pirated it, it would have made $1,000,000,001. Clearly, piracy has negatively affected the revenue from that movie.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: All of the big blockbusters you are talking about are *event movies,* where seeing them in theaters is part of the experience. 

Forget about the blockbusters and actually look at the types of films that used to make up the bulk of domestic box office receipts. They've mostly disappeared, and they are making smaller amounts of money than ever before, and getting smaller budgets. This is also part of why so many directors and actors are flocking to television - there is an ever-shrinking volume of mainstream non-superhero films being made by studios.

Also, the revenue you're looking at is international revenue. When the original Star Wars opened, there was no Chinese market. There was virtually no Nigerian or Indian market either. International markets mean that the big event movies are making more money than ever before, but everything else is largely ignored. In the 1970s a small, personal film like Kramer vs Kramer or Annie Hall could be a national phenomenon; nowadays they'd be, like Infinitely Polar Bear and Grandma were last year, confined to a few art house theaters.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: > At the end of the day, isn't money the main thing the majority of the people/companies in the industry care about?

You answered your own question. They are arguing if no one pirated the movies theyd make even more money.

Also just because the big blockbusters are doing well doesnt mean the smaller movies aren't being more negatively affected. The big blockbusters are going to sell movie tickets no matter what. Its the average rom coms etc that people arent going to waste money going to the theater over and are simply going to pirate.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: I think, when adjusted for inflation, Avatar would be the only film from the last 15 years to make the top 10 of all time. So whilst the big films are making a lot of money, they aren't necessarily as huge as it might seem. Whether they would be in the top 10 without piracy is debatable but piracy can only have harmed the chances of it happening. I imagine a few of those films are in [this](_URL_0_) list of the most pirated films. I'm not sure how much extra they would have made without piracy but you could be looking at $50-100 million in some cases.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: I'm glad you asked because this is a common misconception: The mega-corporations ARE THE ONES WHO CAN SURVIVE PIRACY. They can spend a quarter billion on promotion and overcome the losses. Piracy murders the middle class of film makers, the ones who count on every penny.

Same with the music industry - pirates justify what they do by pointing at millionaires like Lars Ulrich and at bands with nothing who used file sharing to get the word out, but that's not who has suffered from the music industry's collapse. It's everyone in the middle who used to be able to scrape out a living from selling recordings, and now can't. There's a reason all of your movies seem to be mega-blockbusters or cheap bullshit like Paranormal Activity. Piracy is what wiped out everything in between.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Guys... entertainment has monetary value. Watching a movie (especially one still in theatrical release) without paying for it is wrong. If you still wanna do it, more power to you, but don't make up a bunch of hollow moral justifications.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: The movies that aren't major blockbusters ARE being hurt by piracy. Smaller movies don't really stand a chance anymore.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Yes, what you seem to be missing is the overall picture of the revenue of film studios.

It's as naive as asking why gamblers moan about losing money when one of their horses came in at 50-1 and another at 100-1.

Did you not look at all the other horses they backed?

Similarly, have you actually studied the accounts of the film studios, cinemas and so on or did you just glance at a list of popular movies?
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Stealing is still stealing, even if the victim is rich. And that's the theory behind piracy. No, you're not stealing a tangible product, but the argument is you are denying them money that would have been spent on the product itself. You are robbing them of future profits.

EDIT: Yes. I know the above is stupid rhetoric. I don't agree with it. I'm not providing my opinion here, I am stating the argument of companies who claim to be negatively affected by piracy (which is what the OP was asking for). Just because you don't what the answer is doesn't mean it isn't the answer.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: I think a big issue is that the films making big box office sales are the epic films and sequels that people are willing to pay for. Other movies that might not be established franchises or big screen suited action movies or 3d epics are easier to stream online, pirated or not. I know that I personally would only go pay to see a few movies, the rest I'm perfectly content to wait on. This means the movie studios have to work harder to put out a product worth buying, and capitalism is all about finding ways to not work hard.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: The Revenant and the Hateful Eight leaked a week ago. I can honestly say I was planning on paying to see it if they didn't leak.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: As someone who watched 2-3 movies a year now, all big blockbusters (Jurassic world, Star Wars and something else I can't remember this year) I can see how they are losing money.  Years ago I might have watched one movie a month, those days are gone.  I will watch the big stuff where it is still fun to watch in a theater, everything else I will watch at home, pirated or otherwise. 

I can see big movies surviving and smaller stuff disappearing completely.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: The part that got me was that we would pirate stuff we would never pay money to see. Like if we pirated soul plane an watched it because we were drunk and though it would be funny (it wasn't). If it wasn't easily accessible we wouldn't have seen it and they wouldn't get any money. So when they calculate the amount of movies being stolen and multiply it. The amount of money lost is likely inflated.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Do you honestly believe that nobody, ever has stolen a film instead of bought it?

Not stolen a film they wouldn't have paid for (that's theft but not lost revenue) but stolen it instead of paying for it. 

If you acknowledge that some revenue loss has taken place, then there's your answer. If you don't think any loss has taken place then I'd love to hear your reasoning.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: The better question is how can so many crappy movies be made...anyone who has Netflix knows that you can search for hours and hours and see title after title of crap no one should ever waste hours of their life watching...

after just wasting the hours searching.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: I get it, there are plenty of movies that come out that I'd never pay to see in a theater. But if you have enough interest in seeing a movie that you'd pirate it, just wait until it's at redbox, where it's so cheap it's basically free. (Seriously, put your email in one time and they'll send you a coupon for a free movie almost once a week). And if you want to see something so you don't feel left out when your friends or coworkers talk about it, then apparently you want to see it badly enough that you should pay for it.

Piracy is also a HUGE problem in international markets. In places around South East Asia, you'll find pirated copies of movies far more easily than you'd ever be able to find a legitimate copy. It's entirely possible in those places that a person may have seen dozens of popular movies without the content producers ever seeing a cent of it. So yes, in that case, they are absolutely losing significant amounts of money on it.

This isn't really relevant to any particular stance, but the nature of going to the movies has changed dramatically over time. Before the advent of television (i.e. when Gone with the Wind came out) a huge proportion of the American public went to the movies every single week. I can't remember the exact number but it's somewhere around 50%. When there was no other source of mass entertainment, that was how people spent their time. There was also a period where movie theaters were one of the only places you could go to find air conditioning, so it was extremely popular during the summer. So figures for inflation and ticket sales aren't really applicable. 

And keep the production costs in mind when you're considering what you're watching. A lot of people have commented on how the industry is now split between micro budget movies and giant event movies. That's due to the fact that movies are INCREDIBLY expensive to make. This is where the comparison to the music industry falls apart. A musician can cut an album for no money in their basement and make a profit off of it. The only people who have ever done the equivalent in film are the paranormal activity and Blair witch teams. Making a movie requires union crews, locations, permits, insurance, equipment rentals, etc. When midrange budget films operate on thinner margins and have a harder time making their money back, the studios are going to be much less interested in making them because they're not as good of a bet. While you might be able to rationalize not paying to see a movie by thinking that you're only hurting a giant corporation, keep in mind that you're actually hurting the blue collar workers who make the films. When you consolidate all the funds a studio has into a few tentpole franchises, you're making fewer movies, and that means fewer people are working. And that's a shame because a lot of those jobs are really good union positions, often held by people with limited education. And your average midbudget film, btw, is going to employ upwards of a hundred people everyday on set. Think that's bloated? Have you ever been on a real film set? They're complicated places, with several tons of lighting equipment, immense power requirements, medical personnel in case of emergency, dozens of trucks, and huge pieces of gear like cranes. If the studios could get away with less people on set, trust me, they would. Thinking movies shouldn't be union? Try googling "Safety for Sarah." (Cutting corners got a young woman killed on set recently).
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: > I feel like all I ever hear about is actors and films studios crying about how the industry is being effected by piracy yet they appear to be making more money than they ever have.

So one of the flaws you're making is thinking that the largest grossing film represents the total boxoffice or average rate of return on a film.   That's not necessarily the case.  

 > At the end of the day, isn't money the main thing the majority of the people/companies in the industry care about?

yes.. kinda?  

One of the things with movies is that you'll notice a trend - big budget action films.  Super heroes and star wars and dinosaurs.  Movie studio executives are as you say, basically only interested in the bottom line, so they have shifted the movie market to be stuff that sells well on the big screen, but all the studios and actors making anything else are getting hosed.    It used to be the case that you could make a successful money making if not box office breaking drama piece or thriller or romcom or the like and reasonably expect a decent return on it.  Most of that is getting shut out of the market and moving to TV.

Which goes to I think the essence of your question which is "is this really a bad thing?" and the answer is probably not.  Consumers want what they want, and if people would rather watch a movie from a couch you can probably hit a bigger more lucrative audience with 'netflix' (or similar) then that's a good idea.  No one wants to spend 20 or 30 dollars to go to a bad movie, but for 5 bucks I can watch it on my couch and so can 10 other people sort of thing.  The (relatively) expensive tickets + big screen format probably held people back as much as it helped them, trying to pigeon hole a story into a 2 hour format on the big screen, well... it doesn't work always work that well, that's why the extended edition of LOTR is definitive, not the theatrical releases, that's why game of thrones is on HBO and not in the cinema etc.  Some things work well on the big screen, some don't, the market just needs to adjust (and there needs to be a sensible way to pay for things internet only).
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: It's complicated to say the least and should probably be evaluated on a show by show basis. 

Game of thrones for example has probably made more money due to piracy and widespread distribution of their show. They make more money off of film related merchandise. Such as action figures, blankets, shot glasses, and replicas of objects from the show. Kinda like how the merchandising rights to star wars is worth more than the film. 

Other movies/shows maybe not so much. Such as everything Adam Sandler has made since Happy Gilmore probably loses money every time someone pirates it. Because it's dog shit and no one that isn't your parents will buy a ticket to it with real money or buy it on DVD/Bluray/Download.

So i'd say that piracy hurts the film industry on a sliding curve the better your film is the less likely it will be hurt. The worse the more likely it'll get hurt. 

However, the biggest most damaging problems have been Netflix and Hulu and Amazon Prime Streaming. Those have inflicted more damage than piracy ever could. They're also a pandoras box once they were opened there is no turning back. Also the stagnant recovery in the economy has decimated a lot of the crappier films. If you only have enough money to see Star Wars or Pixels which do you choose? Yeah that's what I thought.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: It's because they were able to push through the [Copyright Damages Improvement Act of 1999](_URL_2_).

Copyright math made by the lawyers and lobbyists for the industry was able to figure that somehow, each time you pirate a song or movie, that's up to $150,000 lost.

They were able to get this because the Institute for Policy Innovation was paid off by Jack Abramoff to come up with the numbers that led to their [2011 press release](_URL_2_) that indicated piracy cost the industry more money than what would amount to most of the US agricultural crop failing (58 billion dollars) and also cost the industry so many jobs that it would result in having -58,000 workers (yea, negative, they claimed it cost them more jobs than they had).

TL;DR ELI5 - It's make believe.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: First of all inflated ticket prices make the dollar amount appear higher but ticket sales have been down. Adjusted for inflation there aren't any films for the past 15 years in the top ten of ticket sales:

_URL_3_

Also, pirating has hurt the home market immensely. Video and dvd used to be a powerful secondary market. Once films have been out for a certain amount of time it's even easier to pirate them and many people have forgone purchasing films in lieu of downloading or streaming services.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Like this-

Film Industry: We are negatively being effected by piracy!

People can claim anything, doesn't make it anywhere near the truth. Look at politicians, they proclaim one thing or another daily.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Yes, it's about money, but it's the people WITH the money who are really causing the biggest changes, and it's about how the industry is perceived.

The traditional film industry is perceived by many to be a 'sunset' industry, as Subscription Streaming TV and asynchronous viewing (binge-watched a TV show lately? That's asynchronous viewing, as opposed to waiting to watch one episode each week) becomes the norm.

Smaller studios and independent artists who don't have the budget of Disney etc. are finding it harder and harder to convince producers and studios to take a gamble. They don't want to risk their money on anything that won't be a blockbuster with lots of endorsements and tie-ins, so blockbusters are becoming more and more prevalent.

The knock-on effect is that it limits the number of unique voices and perspectives in the industry. Intelligence, nuance and originality become liabilities.

Also, a larger and larger proportion of movies being made are adaptations from comic books and other media, and nearly all of it sci-fi or fantasy (When was the last time you went out to see a big budget film entirely about real world situations without any fantastical elements? It may have been a while.)

This 'adaptation' model isn't new, but now it is seen as a MUCH safer bet by producers who identify a 'built in' audience for the movie franchise. And who can blame them? It's easy to see it's less risky to design or adapt a product to suit a market niche than to spend money on an experiment and hope there's a market.

Of course, once in a while an interesting nuanced film will get made, but it's the big blockbusters that are paying to keep the lights on.

So now we've reached a point where only a set of 'blockbuster formulas' are really viable - whether it's the JJ Abrams "Canon Remix" approach to reboots, or the Marvel "Every movie is a trailer for the next one" approach that will seemingly never, ever end.

Why? Because movie producers - the ones putting their money on the line - are as averse to risk as anyone. And film makers know it, so they stop pitching truly original ideas.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: The claims that piracy hurts [insert industry name here] are based on the premise that anyone who pirates content is someone who would have paid for that same content if it wasn't available to pirate.

A quick look at the history of various contents will give examples both of people who pirated and never purchased, and of people who pirated and then purchased.

Because theoretically there are people not buying their product who would have if it wasn't pirated, then argue that they have lost the money they would have made.

Now, in my experience as an observer, piracy can either hurt or help sales of content.  on the one hand, you have people who will pirate content and then never buy it afterwards, as the various companies content.  However, you also have people who experience the content and then decide to go out and purchase the content (buy a game, CD, or DVD, or get movie tickets) and even act as free advertising by exposing their friends and family to the same content (who themselves may then pay to experience it)

My opinion is that good content will tend to make more money from the positive side of piracy (those who like it and choose to buy) and bad content tends to be hurt by piracy (because why buy something you know sucks? and wouldn't you warn your friends against wasting their money?)
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: The main fallacy being held up by the movie industry, or the music industry or really any industry claiming loses to piracy is the idea that every pirated copy is a lost sale. This simply isn't true.

In addition to that fallacy they also calculate absurd amounts of money based all through the creation to sale process. The cost of actors/singers, packaging, marketing, directors, etc every aspect of cost that goes into a product is being calculated against this fictional loss to piracy.

For example, a movie company might claim that the lost sale of a movie is worth 10,000 dollars based on this kind of absurd book keeping method instead of the 20 bucks the actual DVD sale would merit. So 50,000 pirated copies of a movie is viewed as 500m loss instead of a 10m dollar loss.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Theft is theft. Piracy is theft. The film industry is taking the wrong approach to the problem. Instead of trying to figure out why people would download movies instead of just assuming their all a bunch of dirty criminals, they deny themselves an opportunity to get ahead of the problem. VoD, Streaming services, could be tailored to get movies into peoples homes faster and far more legally. 

But no, they sit on their billion dollar cash piles and cry because theyre the victim here. Yes smaller, independent films are harder to finance because piracy takes a dent out of profits. But if anyone lives outside of a major city, piracy is the only way to see some smaller movies. The film industry needs to make a better option than piracy. Its the only way to beat it.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: For a bit of insight, go onto IMDB and look at a film's estimated budget versus its box office and remember that most films will never recoop their initial investment and that one blockbuster pays, possibly, for itself and the cast/crew/technicians/animators/etc. but does not necessarily save a studio (which actually means the independent or up-and-coming studios that help make and finance films) from bankruptcy. 

In a few years, this will be all moot since we are moving towards a more independently produced arts market.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Because for every big hit movie there are 20 movies that lose money and those big ones have to pay for the ones that lose money. Not to mention the costs involved in making many of those movies. 

You're talking about 10 movies. Out of thousands of movies made in that time. Most of which lost money.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Are you using constant dollars? Because, adjusting for inflation, the most recent film in the top 10 grossing is Titanic, in 1997, and the top grossing film of all time is Gone With the Wind.

source: _URL_4_

Also, piracy could have slowed their growth, even if it didn't have enough impact to negate their growth entirely.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: They're creativity bankrupt. They are re gagging dabs sit seen before people aren't buying it. Dinosaurs will die. Op said they have been making money, 8 films out of his many? There are allot of losses and flops in there.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: What's worse is that the studios are the owns putting the movies out their to download. This is how they get federal money. They make it an issue they need "help" with.
question: How can the film industry claim they are being negatively effected by piracy when 8 of the 10 highest grossing films of all time have come out in the last 5 years and the highest grossing film of all time only 6 years ago?[removed] answer: Gone with the Wind	$3,440,000,000




Gone with the Wind held the record of highest-grossing film for twenty-five years, and, adjusted for inflation, has earned more than any other film.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: No, actually studies show that dogs rely on humans more than other dogs for social/emotional wellbeing. They have adapted to be dependant on us, in essence. 

Some other animals yes, require others of their species, I had sugar gliders and with them you _need_ at least 2, preferably 3, or they will die of loneliness, no matter how much you interact with them. 

_URL_0_

Edit: "I will add to this a recent study showing dogs do have recognition of the emotions of both humans and other dogs, but it was noted they stare longer (show more interest in) other dogs. _URL_1_ " - /u/Kathalytic
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: Dogs that interact solely with us hoomans and don't run into other dogs just end up thinking we're a bigger bossier type of dog, and so they don't have a gap in their lives. Take 'em to a doggie park where they can romp like crazy and they'll love that, but they'll still come home afterward.

...unless, of course, one of the dogs there is in heat. Then nature might take over.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: Pretty much every answer in this thread is wrong.

Dominance theory has been disproven for quite a long time now. Dogs know that humans are not dogs, thus a "pack structure" resembling dogs or wolves cannot be established. If Fluffy is a hell hound that is destroying your house and property, chances are that he's untrained, under exercised, and under stimulated. Dogs are not lawn ornaments, if you bought a Belgian Malinois expecting him to be the best behaved dog in the world because you saw one "on that tv show", chances are that dog is gonna end up in a shelter by the time it's 9 months old. There are tons of Siberian Huskies in shelters around my area because people buy them because "they're pretty", not realizing they are a high maintenance breed that require more than a 5 minute walk around the block.   

Dominance theory was on it's way out until someone called Caesar Milan made it popular with the masses again, setting us back 20 years when it comes to dog training. 

Recommended reading: 

[American Veterinary Society of Animal Behavior's stance on Dominance Theory](_URL_7_)

[De-Bunking the "Alpha Dog" Theory](_URL_8_) 

[The Dog Whisperer Controversy](_URL_7_)

[Dog training methods: their use, effectiveness and interaction with behaviour and welfare ](_URL_7_)

[An evaluation of dog-training techniques: an assessment of efficacy and
welfare](_URL_8_)

__________________________________

To answer OP's question: No, dogs have been selectively bred and domesticated to bond and prefer the company of humans rather than other dogs. They will not become "unhappy" or "depressed" because there are no other dogs in the house.

Here are a few articles: 

[Link](_URL_8_)

[Do Dogs Love People More Than They Love Other Dogs?
](_URL_8_)
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I have two dogs and they really don't seem to give a shit about each other.  We had one dog for a year or two and then got the second.  There was a period where they were unsure about the other, then it was a getting comfortable familiar period, and for a while they used to play and have a great time.  Now they barely interact.  

I guess my two dogs are basically like a married couple.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: This is also a matter of character. 
Out of my three dogs, two love each other very much. They will lie close to each other, clean each others ears, and generally just hang out and enjoy the company. 

My third dog kind of likes the others, but she is much more attached to us friendbeasts. She used to be an only child dog and I sometimes feel she misses the good old days when she had all the attention to herself. I am pretty sure she would trade the other dogs for another pair of hoomans in a heartbeat.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I'm not an expert but my Lab loves all people  he can't get enough human interaction... Other dogs? He fucking hates other dogs. There's 2 dogs that he's been exposed to his whole life that he tolerates, but any other dog he wants to destroy
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: As a follow up question : Can dogs differentiate between adult humans and baby/toddler humans? My dog gets way too excited whenever my two year old niece is near him as compared to with an adult.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: In John Bradshaw's (excellent) 2011 book 'In Defense of Dogs', he cites a study which tried to establish this very fact. Some puppies were raised as littermate pairs and socialised to people. By the time the puppies were two years old, they had not been separated for even a minute, when one was removed for four hours. The remaining dog's (there were 4 pairs) behaviour did not significantly alter, nor did their cortisol blood levels (a stress hormone).  
 & nbsp;

  When the dogs were taken to a new kennel, however, they were very upset, whether or not they were with their littermate and the stress hormone increased 50% or more. Finally, if they were taken to a new kennel, WITH their main human carer, they pestered the human, stayed nearby and again, the stress hormone did not change.  
 & nbsp;

  The advice now is not to get a new dog, or a pair of dogs in order to alleviate separation anxiety in your dog. Later he says there is research to show that a dog in a rehoming centre will become attached to a human after meeting them on just two consecutive days for a few minutes and become distressed when they leave. Dogs have become genetically reliant on humans in a way wolves would never be. It's a fascinating book, and I highly recommend it :)
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: Nope not at all. 

The degree of difference between a dog and person from their perspective is as arbitrary as the difference between a black kid being raised by white parents. Until that kid sees somebody outside the family he will just think he's different from family, but still a person.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: Let me clarify in the face of all this bs that most trainers and behaviorists do NOT think dogs see us as other dogs. Theyve simply evolved over 40k years to seekus out as their survival strategy. Many dogs would prefer the company of humans than other dogs unless they were socialized at an early age to enjoy dogs.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I will say yes based on what I experienced yesterday. I'm taking care of a little Yorkie pup and my 10 yr old weiner/dash-hound won't leave her alone. She (10 yr old weiner/dash-hound) has never really been around too many dogs but it seems like she wants to mother this pup.

She even watches her like this _URL_9_
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I had a dog that only interacted with humans. He was agreeable with almost every human he met, but when it came to any time he was introduced to another dog... It was bad news. But he's definitely very happy without other dogs around. XD (Jack Russell)
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: They generally don't care. They're used to adapting to their new pack and been comfortable with only humans. It may be an issue if they've been conditioned to the company of other dogs for long periods of their life though.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I have a German short haired pointer that is extremely emotional.    He waits for my pit bull for everything.   To sleep, eat, etc.   
the pointer is 10 years younger so he goes on some trips by himself and without his pit bull he just cries.   He won't play or anything.   Only if the pit bull is with him.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: My friend had 2 dogs.  
They were inseparable, they played together every day.   
One day, one dog died.  
My friend worried the other dog would get seriously depressed.  
The remaining dog didn't seem to give a shit.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I have left reddit for a reddit alternative _URL_15_ due to years of admin mismanagement and preferential treatment for certain subreddits and users holding certain political and ideological views.  

  The abuse of downvotes to silence opposing viewpoints with the automatic 9 minute delay on comments prevents fair flow of ideas and thoughts when only the approved may speak. 

   As an act of protest, I have chosen to redact all the comments I've ever made on reddit, overwriting them with this message.  

   If you would like to do the same, install [TamperMonkey](_URL_13_) for Chrome, [GreaseMonkey](_URL_14_) for Firefox, [NinjaKit](_URL_12_) for Safari, [Violent Monkey](_URL_16_) for Opera, or [AdGuard](_URL_10_) for Internet Explorer (in Advanced Mode), then add [this GreaseMonkey script](_URL_11_).   

 Finally, click on your username at the top right corner of reddit, click on the comments tab, and click on the new OVERWRITE button at the top of the page. You may need to scroll down to multiple comment pages if you have commented a lot.  

   After doing all of the above, you are welcome to join me on a reddit alternative _URL_15_!
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I don't think you can generalize. My lab mix worshiped me. He was sorta of curious about other dogs but really all he cared about was me. He seemed to like having another dog around (we usually have 2) but if I left a room he would try to follow. He never really seemed to have good dog instincts, though he mostly got along with the many many many dogs he met in his life.

On the other hand, I have a rescue that spent 7 years in a dog shelter with many other dogs (in the same pen). 

She loved the lab (I had to put him down a week ago. Sucks.), and takes her cues from other dogs. She seems to only feel comfortable when there is another dog around. She (versus my lab) has amazing dog instincts. 

Socialisation, temperament, breed and probably a bunch of other factors go in to this.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: my beagle hated other dogs because they were always high energy and intrusive and she was chill and shy.  she would jump up on chairs when other dogs were around and try and get as far back away from them as possible with this sort of "oh god what the hell is that thing why is it trying to sniff and lick me oh dear god why are you over there laughing your ass off come and save me dammit" look on her

she eventually got used to them around, and the other dogs learned not to initiate with her and let her come out and join on her own accord when she was feeling up to it.  but i don't think she ever got to the point where she loved the others.  just tolerated them
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: It depends on the breed. Some breeds were bred to be companion dogs, their whole personality is geared towards making humans happy and enjoying the interactions they have with people. Pugs are a great example. For them, it's about people.

Other breeds have different needs. Some, like herding dogs or vermin hunting dogs, will get bored if they are just companions and have nothing to do. Dogs raised to work with other dogs, like Alaskan Husky sled dogs, truly need other dogs to interact with - we bred them that way.

I have no idea how cats work. They are a lot more complicated. I have always had a dog, but I also had cats growing up, and their behavior always baffled me.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: If your dog has been exclusively raised by people, they don't get lonely.  Especially if your're home most of the time.   I work full time and have 2 dogs, both older and they are inseparable.  One of mine had to have a minor surgery and the other one just laid by the front door all day.  Absolute joy when he returned on her part. Of course he was stoned and didn't appreciate the attention but you can't help what you feel.  And, yes, they get plenty of attention from me.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: Have two dogs. They fight for attention just like children would.

They get lonely if they aren't getting attention if they're on their own (locked away from a room containing humans) or if they're in a room with humans and another dog, both will fight each other for attention.

This observation is based on the two long standing dog family members both female, (An intelligent Collie and a Lhasa Apso) and their behaviour around the rest of the human family.

They appear to require humans more than other dogs.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: My dog actually does not like other dogs at all. If I'm playing with him and another dog jumps in, my dog stops playing altogether. A dog lays next to him? He moves to another spot. Giving out treats to some dogs?  He is off to the side away from the other dogs. 

Not sure why he is like this because he has always been around other dogs. Of course he doesn't like a whole bunch of people either. Pretty much just family and close friends.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: Do you mean " do dogs ever get lonely for other dogs"?  The answer is yes. My puppy has exclusively been around humans for his entire life...the past 8 months from the age of 12 weeks. He sits by the window and cries every time a dog goes by. He has a rare bone condition that doesn't allow him to play rough. So I don't care what studies have been made. I see that he longs for the company of other dogs.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: My Staffordshire Bull Terrier saw other dogs as the enemy. She would eat anything I ate, including fruit, her favourite being plums, the stone got ground up by her back teeth.

When walking her off lead in the park, she would stand still if she saw another dog and wait for me to put her lead on. Any dog that approached her got teeth.

Human company was all she wanted.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: From my experience, yes, but studies say otherwise. 

Source: my doberman has been very mopey for the last two years after his sister died and we had to put down our dachshund, but when he's around my mom's new chihuahua he's much happier. He doesn't live with her though, he stays with me at my house.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: My two dogs need each other so much it's pathetic. They both love me to pieces and playfully compete for affection but the younger of the two takes all her cues on how to behave from the older of the two (who is also male).
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: My dog tolerates the dogs in my immediate circle, but "tolerates" is as far as it goes. He will actively seek empty rooms if he can't get a human lap just to get away from them after they've played for five minutes.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I read this as "Does anyone else ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around dogs?"  My answer to the mis-read question is a resounding YES.  I routinely acknowledge dogs while ignoring their owners.
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: I'm reading all of these comments with great interest, however, why do some dogs suddenly "break" and viciously attack and sometimes kill their humans?  What actually happens in these dogs that causes this?
question: Do dogs ever get lonely if they are exclusively in the company of humans, but never around other dogs? answer: Don't buy sugar gliders before doing your homework: _URL_17_
question: Why is right-handedness dominant? answer: One theory:

The reason we have hand dominance is for practically using tools effectively. Humans cooperate using tools all the time. A right handed tool will not necessarily work for a left handed person. In this case, humans evolved to create a hand dominance through cooperation. Those early civilizations that had a hand dominance were able to cooperate more, which led to better successes. Why it was the right hand could be just considered coincidence.

So why do we have left handed dominance? That's because just as important as it was to cooperate, it was also just as important to compete. If you look at professional athletes today, almost %50 of them are left handed, which is an extremely higher percentage than total number of left handed people (less than 10%). Civilizations that had at least *some* left hand dominant people were able to compete better.

TL;DR - Majority dominance allows more cooperation. Minority dominance allows better competition.
question: Why is right-handedness dominant? answer: Another theory is religion.

Many years ago, Islam was a dominant religion and imposed that left hands are for "dirty/unclean deeds", you would commonly see Muslims use their left hand to wipe their butt, right hand ONLY for eating their food.

Christianity too. Well they don't explicitly say "death to all lefties", early church blessing has been done with the right hand. And in the Bible, the term "right hand" is always associated with being the most important.

And also don't leave out Buddhism, [in Buddhist tantra](_URL_1_), the right hand symbolises the male aspect of compassion or skilful means, and the left hand represents the female aspect of wisdom or emptiness.

**EDIT**: I got downvoted within 30 minutes of posting this so my jimmies are rustled and I probably rustled someone's sensitive jimmies on religion as well. I won't complain about DV so I'll put up more sources and leave it as that.

**On Christianity:**

Bible favours right handed. [Source](_URL_5_) (the bible is also a source)

The Catholic Church declared left-handed people to be servants of the Devil. [Source 1](_URL_3_) [Source 2](_URL_3_)

**On Islam:**
Among Muslims, the left hand is reserved for bodily hygiene and considered unclean. [Source: Understanding Arabs: A Guide for Modern Times](_URL_2_) (And also I lived in a muslim country for a goddamn 15 years)

**On Buddhism:**

Nearly all statues of buddha and the like are shown with him raising his right hand. [Source](_URL_0_)

Left hand is the inert hand. A disciple called Bodhidharma even cut off his left arm to demonstrate sincerity.  [Source](_URL_4_)
question: Why is right-handedness dominant? answer: I'd venture to guess that right and left handedness have little to nothing to do with human evolution. Many animals exhibit "rightedness" which is dominant over "leftedness". For example, many crabs are "right-clawed" and most snails coil their shells so that their opening is on the right. I'm sure there are many other examples, but those are two that I can come up with off the top of my head.

Judging by the wiki entry on handedness, there is no actual consensus on the matter. As I suggested above, I'd argue that the roots of handedness are much, much older than humanity.
question: Why is right-handedness dominant? answer: When I was young, I began using my left hand for tasks more often than my right. My dad didn't want me to be "odd" so he conditioned me to use my right hand instead. Now I can't even write my own name with my left hand. Total lack of articulation. However, sometimes I shoot pool better left-handed; it still feels a bit awkward. I've always heard the wives tales that "left handed people are more artistically inclined" etc. I sometimes wonder if my father had somehow changed my destiny by forcing me to go right-handed. I did play a number of orchestra instruments in grades 4-7 and taught myself to play the piano at the age of 12 by sound alone. I couldn't read music but I could imitate things like movie scores (Star Wars, Star Trek, Jurassic Park) and at one point Fur Elis (spelling?).
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: People like their own representatives, but don't like Congress as a whole.

Most people are familiar with their own representative. That makes sense; when their local politician does stuff, it gets on the news (and the rep makes sure it gets on the news). Despite popular perception, a lot of the staff work in their offices is "constituent service": It has nothing to do with policy or party but everything to do with civic bureaucracy (getting licenses renewed, pushing through car registrations, etc.) Locally, a lot of people might say "Oh, I don't agree with X's stance on this issue, but he helped get my visa application through so I'll give him the benefit of the doubt."

In addition, politicians can speak to their constituents; they have a sounding board through which they can explain their positions more fully. A politician can release a statement tailored to their area to help explain why a vote is important. 

Incumbency is also important; it generally has an advantage (name recognition, local connections, etc.) It can sometimes be a liability, but most of the time it's a benefit. 

Finally, they can start local projects ("pork"). Now that earmarks are gone, that's not as effective as it used to be, but it's still there.

All of these factors are things that are locally known, and none of them are nationally known. So when people say "I hate Democrats/Republicans!" they're looking at the wide view--they only are aware of the upper-level decisions made on important issues. But for their own representative, they can say "Well, I only agree with about 40% of what his party stands for, but he got that baseball park built for us, and I know the local pipefitters like him, and he helped my aunt get a wheelchair from Medicare, so I trust him to do the right thing." You don't think those things about a representative across the nation because it doesn't help you, but they're doing the exact same thing.

EDIT: A lot of people are mentioning money and gerrymandering. While both can certainly be a factor, they're not close to being major factors. I won't go into it (unless we get another ELI5) but while money favors incumbents, it can often be a tool used against them as well (see: 1994, 2006, 2010). And gerrymandering doesn't really answer the OP's question--it can certainly be an issue but it wouldn't explain why they are locally popular and nationally unpopular.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Gerrymandering and money. Basically, setting up the voting districts so that your party cannot lose. And because you are the incumbent, special interests will support you with plenty of money for your campaign.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: it's only pork when it's not your district.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because of the way Congress is set up in the Constitution, members of the House of Representatives only represent people from their district and Senators only represent people from their state.  What this means is that when it comes time to vote, as a citizen, I can only vote for the member of the House associated with my district and the 2 Senators from my state (during different election years).  

In other words, there are 435 people in the House and 100 in the Senate.  A single voter only has a say for 3 of these 535 people.  

Because of this concentration of votes on only a few elected leaders, Congress is made up of people from all over the political spectrum, rather than just being an average of everyone's views.  As a result, there are plenty of Congressmen people like and plenty they hate.  They tend to like the ones from where they're from and share similar views, but they dislike those with opposing views from elsewhere.  When all is said and done, people hate Congress as a whole, but that hatred's usually based upon the actions of politicians that the individual is unable to vote for.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: 1. False dichotomy two party system.

2. Lobbying dollars used to buy advertising.

3. Numbfuck idiots believing what they see on tv.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: I wish my laptop worked as i could type this much faster. Here goes.

Approval rating overall doesn't have much effect on specific people who get elected. Viewing congress as a whole is different than how people view their individual elected officials, particularly because you can pinpoint the projects a local official has taken part in and relate personally.

More importantly, incumbency and re election is a separate beast that rides on two main factors: name recognition and money. Incumbent re elections are very high because their names are at least recognized due to already having campaigned and been in office. People trust things they at lest have heard of. 

Next- money. Money is used to get  name recognition. Money is spent on flyers, signs, canvassing, events, renting office space, cold calling, paying finance directors to call people to get more money, etc. incumbents are already in the lead here because they already have the names of people they need to call, they already have franking privileges (mailing ) which saves a shitload of money. They have databases with information readily compiled from previous election runs. So a non-incumbent has to work a ton harder to raise money and get her name out there. 

This kills me i cant keep typing maybe i write more later when laptop fixed
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: [This is a simple and mind-opening book](_URL_0_) about the problem. 

Basically? The voters are the problem. We vote for our representatives based on our own local interests, then expect them to carry those out. But we also expect Congress as a whole to do things that are best for the entire country. What we don't do is consider the possibility that what's best for our local community may not be good for the country. We also don't think for even a second if every district and state acted as selfishly as we did that it would cripple the nation.

Farmers will think "We produce the food for the whole country! We deserve these subsidies!" That costs the rest of *the country* money. The steel industry thinks "without us, American manufacturing is dead. We deserve these tax breaks!" That costs the rest of *the country* money. The banks think "With all these regulations, we can't quickly manage investments to keep the economy productive, and everyone depends on us doing that. We need to get these regulations gone!" That results in *the country* getting proper fucked.

Nearly every "special interest" group can think of legitimate reasons and rationalizations for why they deserve special treatment. But everyone claiming that treatment drains our national treasures. Think about this the next time you hear a politician railing against special interests. He'll call out the easy targets, but if you dig into his politics, you'll see he has a ton of his own special interests. You shouldn't be surprised when those interests align with those of his district, his voters. 

We're all a selfish bunch of assholes without any foresight or long-term thinking.

This is the exact same problem we see when we take national polls about what to do about our budget problems. "Balance the budget!" we say loudly. "But don't raise my taxes or cut any of these programs!" we say, just as loudly. You look at the poll results when they ask about specific programs to cut for spending, and even Republicans won't say yes to any of them. We're a stupid fucking group of people. 

**The voters are the problem.** If politicians are a problem, it's only because they listen to us so well.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Gerrymandering!

Gerrymandering is the act of redrawing district lines to make is easier for one side to get elected.  Imagine there is an area that is electing 3 congressmen.  There are 100 hardline republicans and 50 hardline democrats.  If split fairly you might see 2 republicans and 1 democrat.  If you carefully draw the district line so that each district has 33 republicans and 16 democrats (the leftovers can go anywhere) you now have 3 republicans.

Here are some examples of [gerrymandered districts.](_URL_1_)

It is a very popular strategy, particularly among republicans.  Draw the districts so any many of the opposing party is in a single district limiting them to one seat.  Then the remaining districts are strongly in your favor.  The problem is now these congressmen have no fear of losing future elections.  The democratic district is near 100% democrat, the republican districts are usually very safely republican.  The congressmen could run down the streets naked flipping off their constituents and still probably win.  Republicans don't want to vote for democrats and vice versa.  The only danger of losing their seat is to another of the same party in the primary.

A second major reason is SuperPACs.  Corporations can basically pump unlimited money into campaigns and flood television with commercials trying to sabotage candidates they don't like and telling people to vote for candidates they do.  They get away with a lot of things.  People don't have enough time to really research the candidates and vote the way TV tells them to.  Flooding the television with attack ads is very effective.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: because most people are fucking stupid.

most of those who do bother to vote, only do so by party lines or by who they think will give them free shit (regardless of how much damage it's doing).

aka worthless/selfish ignorant assholes. 

you'll also notice, especially on a local level, that the same last names are in the political elite year after year after year... no matter how shitty their local city/town economy is doing.

again, this is because most people are fucking stupid and they vote for the name they recognize instead of actually being politically involved, or at the very least, researching the candidates before election day.

this is what frustrates me the most about my country. while everyone should have the right to vote, they also should have the personal obligation to understand what certain politicians (and political parties IMO) are doing to them.

i'd much rather someone not vote at all than go to the booth voting based solely on platitudes, ingrained behavior, and willful ignorance of the world around them.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Sports team based mentality when it comes to politics.  What team are you on? Democrat or Republican?  Blindly vote for the member of your team.

Honestly, the only way to really garner any change would be to always vote for the other guy.  I never vote for the incumbent.  Doesn't matter what political party their affiliated with, or what their beliefs/ideals are - insanity wolf is the only solution to this horrible mess we're in.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Follow the money.

A key factor in election to the US congress is strong financial support. Rallies, flyers, helpers, advertisements, etc, all cost money. For a few *very* well off individuals this money can come out of their own pocket. For the vast majority though, this money comes (largely) from lobbyists. Campaign sponsorship comes with an implicit recognition that you'll do your best to support their interests, a very valuable commodity for many companies.

Now, most lobby groups do hedge their bets a bit, the worst possible outcome is that a person who knows they helped the other guy gets elected. However, there are already a few factors which favour the incumbent. The incumbent inherently has a greater name-recognition; he spent all that money on advertising 2 years ago, remember?

As a result, lobby groups / campaign sponsors give more money to incumbents than challengers. A **lot** more. In 2000 for [example](_URL_2_), incumbents spent 92.8% of the money. Not surprisingly, this translated to 67.3% of the vote.

This is a self-sustaining advantage too. The fact that incumbents get more money means they are more likely to win. The fact they are more likely to win means that the benefits from donating to them are greater than the benefits of donating to the other guy. Thus, incumbents get *even more* money.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Political Science major here!  I'll focus more on the House, which is the more obstructionist part of Congress, for reasons I'll discuss.  Congressional House districts cater to a relatively small constituency and districts are often drawn in ways that preserve a member's electoral majority, a process known as [gerrymandering](_URL_3_).  This means that a member of Congress doesn't have to tailor his image and positions to a randomly selected 1/435 of Americans in his state, but a carefully selected group that is predisposed to support him.

It's important to remember that job security for Congressmen depends only on whether or not their constituents approve of the job they're doing.  One reason so many people don't like Congress is that many members refuse to compromise.  This leads to gridlock; most Americans agree that Congress needs to compromise more to get things done.  However, this logic collapses when looking at their own Congressman.  When other Congressmen oppose legislation to move forward on an issue these Americans care about, they are being "obstructionist" and Congressional disapproval increases.  When their own Congressman refuses to compromise on an issue, he is "taking a principled stand" or "doing what's right, not popular".

It can help to think of Congressmen as rational actors; their is no incentive for compromising to get things done for the "good of the nation" because the nation doesn't elect them.  They only need to serve the interests of their (often quite narrow-minded) constituents - there is no incentive to compromise.  Indeed, doing so could be seen as weakness and become a huge liability in the next election.  For example, Senator McConnell, the Senate Republican majority leader, is being hit with attacks from the right for not taking enough hard-line stances against Harry Reid and the Democrats.  

It's a complicated issue but it becomes clearer when you remember that Congressmen want to be reelected and to keep their jobs, not necessarily do what's best for the country.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because people are fucking stupid, through and through
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: I worked on the campaign trail for nearly a decade, so I can tell you the three most interesting reasons:  

1. The Optimism Gap - People hate Congress but love their Congressman.  This is less true than it used to be but the dynamic still holds.  While Congress is less popular than the King of England at the time of the Revolutionary War, most members of Congress get something like 60-70% approval in their home district.  This high level of approval among active voters is primarily due to the gerrymandering of districts (i.e. politicians choose the voters, not the other way around).  However, widespread voter apathy also contributes to this dynamic because most polls only take into account the opinions of people planning on voting (the first question in most polls is:  Are you planning on voting?  No = goodbye).  Therefore, the positive reviews of the politician's active supporters disproportionately skew polling and ignore the potentially negative opinions of inactive voters that exist in the population.  

2. PAC Checks - Most Political Action Committees (PACs) have a rule that they only give money to incumbent members of Congress. It's not just that the guy with the most money wins something like 95% of the time, it's also that most of the money flows to incumbents specifically.  So while the challenger is phone calling every one of their friends for $100 or asking for $25 in an email to build their campaign from scratch and then later spending 5-7 hours/day 5-7 day/week raising money by cold-calling rich donors, politicians already elected to Congress get multiple $5000 checks handed to them at lunches and happy hours in DC.  The incumbents-only rule is especially true of corporate PACs and rarely broken (only when it's obvious the challenger will win).  

3. Franking - In the budget for every member of Congress is an allotment of money for substantial amounts of postage and constituent contact, known as "franking".  Essentially, elected member of Congress get to mail their voters for free, telling them how awesome they are and how much amazing legislation they've passed (or stopped).  It's like a low-tech advertising budget for incumbent Congressmen (though some offices have even used franking dollars to run online ads).  This really entrenches incumbents even further because they are constantly corresponding with constituents and doing them favors, which tit-for-tat picks them up additional support at the polls.  Challengers face an uphill battle in gaining similar name recognition and popularity among the population because they have to do it all with their campaign.  Incumbents get to use their office and the campaign to make their case for why they are a good member of Congress who should be re-elected.

Wait, this isn't ELI50?  Oops, my bad.  Hope it helps!

PS.  It's really interesting to combine the 13% approval of Congress with the Gallup poll result showing 87% of Americans believe reducing government corruption is extremely or very important (making it a top 3 issue).  I wonder if the 13% of people is the same in both cases - approve of Congress and believe corruption is not a problem.  Who the hell are those people?

tl;dr - Congress sucks, but incumbents got the votes, the money, and the favors.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Imagine you poll three cities for their favorite foods. These cities are A, B, and C. The poll finds the following results:

A - Steak

B - Candy Corn

C - Deep Fried Broccoli

The pollsters say "Well, this is fantastic, we know what each city likes, so let's give them all the same dish, one that contains all three favorite foods!"

You now have a dish that contains steak, candy corn, and deep fried broccoli. Because it contains all three favorites, it's said to be representative of all cities preferences, but if you ask the people what they think of the dish, most of them will say that they DON'T enjoy it, because their favorite dish is being overpowered by other dishes in the casserole. 

The favorites are the individual representatives, the casserole is congress, and the cities are the individual districts. 

If you want to learn more about why people overwhelmingly elect incumbents in each election, that is a different story.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: 1. Because we are idiots who vote Party Lines.

2. Because the system is set up so that we are typ0ically offered a choice between 'Dumb and Dumber'.

3. Because we are too lazy to even keep track of what our own particular 'Esteemed Legislator' is doing and only blame them in 
general for the messes they create.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Pork.

Your congressman brings home federal money for the project you like (a community swimming pool or a waste facility that creates jobs or gets some local person on a postage stamp, etc.)  You may hate the other congressman in other districts doing the same but you got yours!
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Everybody thinks they have the best congressman. It's always somebody else's fault.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Simple, congress doesnt work well as a team, but you cant trace it down to any one person (except maybe senators like Ted Cruz that spend all their time filibustering). Also these congressmen are getting paid more to get nothing done in a sense from big sponsors. Almost always if you have plenty of money you can get re-elected with extensive campaining. In general there too much differences between the two parties to get anything done in politics and thats ultimatly damaging the reputation of congress.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: They elect a person, but are fed up with 'the system' and not making the right connection between the two. Also the system also allows to put the blame on somebody else. 

And the elected might have something done for his local voters and they respect that, but still hate on Washington.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Answer = Gerrymandering.  

In most states (some, like Iowa, California are exceptions) districts are drawn by the state legislators.  Extremely advanced computer software is used to draw district lines to guarantee outcomes, allowing for maybe a single competitive race (i.e.: Florida).  

In the 2012 election, more Democratic votes were cast in the nation, but the House of Representatives is Republican controlled.  That is due to gerrymandering.  Both parties are equally guilty of this all over the country.

People like their Representative because they have purposefully  &  statistically been grouped with other like-minded citizens.  This causes a galvanization of people's beliefs (nice way of saying "close-minded").    

(Source: I have a degree in Political Science and teach college level government).
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Hardly anyone will read this at the bottom, but it's lobbying, or as most politicians will never admit to calling it, legitimized bribery. I was a lobbyist for 2 years for the largest lobbying 501(c)(3) on the planet, the AARP. If we're ever going to have the opportunity for beneficial reform, lobbying/bribery has to become illegal.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: I know others have mentioned the obvious answer to this paradox:  redistricting.  A while back, Slate magazine came up with a jigsaw puzzle game that illustrates how arbitrarily these "districts" are often drawn in order to all but ensure victory for one party.  Give it a try here if you like:  _URL_4_
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: How has gerrymandered districts not come up yet?  Gerrymandering produces safe districts that encourage extremism, as the only challenger will likely be the one more able to appeal to the district's base.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Approval Rate: "Do you like the president/congress?" 'NO FUCK THEM'

Election Time: "Who'd you vote for?" 'Same people ... didn't know anything about the others' *or* 'Didn't Vote' *or* 'etc...'
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Everyone loves their congress critter.  Their congress critter has done a lot for the district.  It's your congress critter who sucks and needs to go so please vote him out.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Everyone hates congress but your local congressman get little bits of legislation passed to benefit your area.  So the people there love their congressmen but hate everybody else's.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: It's because the way most districts are drawn there is really no more competitive races left for Congress.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Scientifically gerrymandered districts + scientifically effective techniques that reduce voter turnout = polarized electorate, and defeat-proof incumbents.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: It's true that "Congress sucks but my politician doesn't" for one reason: gerrymandering. Gerrymandering is why.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because people are generally forced to pick between a turd sandwich and a giant douche.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: People tend to blame congressmen other than the ones in their state/district.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: People love their state congressmen, they just hate everyone else's.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: People hate change. They fear what they don't know
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Ctrl+F: first past the post

No results.

Seriously, guys?
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: A two party duopoly.  The first priority of members of congress are to get elected and remain in office, and they are very good at it.  After this, they are interested in getting fellow party members elected to office and keeping them in office.  Distantly after those two priorities, and probably numerous others, is to actually pursue their legislative agenda and try to get some laws passed, but that's really unnecessary in pursuit of the first two priorities.

Now, in a given congressional race, the candidates must convince the voters of two things.  First, they must convince the voters that the Democrat and Republican running are the only two worthy candidates, and that a vote for a third party candidate is a waste.  Since both parties agree on this, there isn't much a third party can do to get recognition and access to voters through debates.  (Even if a third party candidate did get some attention, most voters just don't pay that much attention.)

Second, the candidates must convince voters that they are better than the other candidate.  The easiest way to do this is to take the other candidates positions and highlight the negative aspects and drive those home in every speech while remaining ambiguous about their own positions.  When candidates are ambiguous, people tend to assume that they agree with them on the issues.  Just look at how President Obama ran on a campaign of hope and change, and what people just assumed that meant.

Now that the candidate has managed to get elected, they need to focus on their reelection.  That means focusing your legislative agenda on bills that are sure to please the voters, while avoiding anything that could be used against you.  That's how you end up with deficit spending, because anyone who would vote to raise taxes or cut spending could be cast in a negative light during the next election.  So, they vote to spend on things all the voters like while also voting to keep taxes low.  If the president wants to go to war, they won't vote for it as they required by the constitution, but they also won't stop the president from doing it anyway, because being for or against war can be used against you.

Congress is like your shitty roommate who doesn't stop the dog from taking a shit on the floor.  Sure, they're against the dog shitting on the floor, but doing anything about it may cause them to get shit on their hands and the dog may not like them for it.  Fortunately for them, they have you convinced that only one other person is willing to live with you (because they tore down your fliers), and that other person clearly hates dogs because they happen to own a cat.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: I'm a little late to the party, but I think I can make a meaningful contribution to this ELI5.

A major problem with the American political system is how we vote.  I'm not talking about the Electoral College, electronic ballots or anything like that.  I'm talking about the mathematical system we use to combine individual preferences into a group preference.  Each person selects one candidate, the votes are tallied, and the candidate with the most votes wins.  This is known as plurality voting, and it sounds fair.

Unfortunately, plurality voting is deceptively simple.  It has a major defect known as [the spoiler effect.](_URL_8_)  The spoiler effect occurs when a candidate draws votes from a major candidate with similar political views thereby causing a strong opponent of both to win.  Famous presidential spoilers include Ross Perot, and Ralph Nader.  Spoilers not only happen during presidential elections, but at every level of government.  This is why [Republicans fund Green Party Candidates](_URL_10_), and [Democrats fund Libertarian Candidates](_URL_11_) in an effort to take votes away from their opponents.

The spoiler effect has trained voters to [strategically vote](_URL_10_) to prevent the spoiler effect from occurring.  Unfortunately, [strategic voting perpetuates the two party system](_URL_9_), and the two party system is a major reason why we have such crappy candidates.

The good news is that there are voting systems that eliminate the spoiler effect.  The bad news is that there is no clear best voting system.  [Score Voting](_URL_7_) (The same system Amazon uses to rate products) is a personal favorite of mine.

TL;DR: We keep voting for the same crappy politicians because math.  [Here is a CGP Grey video about it]( _URL_11_)
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because a state representative congress was a great idea 250 years ago but sucks now. When a congressman tacks on $50 million worth of pork on a bill his own state loves him while the rest of the country hates him for wasting our money. When the military gets stuck with a billion dollars worth of planes they don't want, which prevents them from getting equipment they DO want and can cost lives, everyone hates that congressman, but the people in his state where the manufacturer is located love him. It is an awful system right now, the country suffers because they all look out for themselves first, their state second, the country last. Add to that the money trail, where encumbents have corporate dollars already behind them, plus they can sell their seniority as a benefit if they are on key committees and the system is rigged for reelection.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: There are quite a few reasons. The first is that incumbents have nearly every advantage in an election. Elections come down to money and networking. Incumbents have already raised the money the first time. They know who will give them money and they know how to get it. Similarly, they have all the connections. People know them and will support them. 

Secondly, super PACs will tend to support incumbents. PACs want to get in good with politicians and will support this whom they think will win often regardless of affiliations. Ted Kennedy was very anti gun yet every election he received the maximum donation from the NRA. The perception that incumbents will win helps make sure they actually will win.

Third, people tend to hate all politicians except the one they elected.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Extremely simple answer: people hear national news about congress and local news about their representative (if they hear information about them at all).

National news work is often higher profile and there's a much bigger focus on investigative journalism. Local news is more concerned with fluff pieces and the image of whatever region they are in. This isn't true in bigger locales, local news in New York city almost certainly has a hard-hitting investigative bent to it, especially compared to the newspaper from buttfuck nowhere.

That means that when you hear about your representative, unless they've done something bad enough to draw the attention of national news, you're probably reading a fluff piece.

This phenomenon alone is enough to give people a biased opinion of their own representatives compared to others.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Here's an example for you: Congress is currently authorizing tens (hundreds?) of millions of dollars to be spent on construction of fighter jets that the military has no use for. These jets are going straight from factories into scrap yards. The vast majority of the country thinks this is outrageous, but the thousands of people who work at those factories are very happy with the work their representatives in Congress have done to keep their jobs from disappearing.

Congressmen are elected to serve the interests of their states or districts. If they can siphon enough tax dollars back into their home districts, then their constituents will love them, even if it means they're screwing over the rest of the country in the process.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: "Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%."

Simple. People want to think that the problem is with everyone else and not the guy that they elected. After all, the people in a district don't want to believe that they could put a guy in office that sucks. For example, you are a manager and you hire someone you really believe in to do a difficult job. He's screwing it all up and everyone around you knows it.... but to save your own ego, you deny to yourself that the guy you hired is the problem. Instead, you blame the problems on the people around him.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: It's because of what they call "politics". They are using reporters to leak stories in their favor, using back stabbing tactics against those in their way. Also, setting up other candidates for failure to somehow ensure personal success.  Ultimately they all want to get to the top ASAP and be as powerful as possible. They will use any means necessary. For example, back channeling with foreign dignitaries, say from china for instance, and powerful billionaire business men to leverage control. sometimes they don't even need your vote, they are so crafty they can get people around them to resign and slowly move up the ladder that way.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: OOH OOH WE TALKED ABOUT THIS IN GOV CLASS
its something called the incumbent advantage: essentially, he's already well known, and the other guy has to fight an uphill battle to get his name out there. essentially they use those ads, "do we really know who (insert person running against incumbent) is?" also, most local parties don't allow fellow party members to run against them (so a republican can't run against a republican incumbent and get party support and has to run as an independent) and in some districts that are overwhelmingly one party the other guy (democrat or republican) doesn't really stand a chance.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because we, the people, are horrible at making decisions. Just like Congress.

People don't actually follow political news for the most part. They vote based primarily on familiarity with a name, or for their "political party". I feel confident that 90% of people that vote for an elected official can't tell you with any level of confidence what that person actually stands for or has built their "campaign" on. 

In short, American politics are awful, and we need to erase what we have and start over, imo.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: The entire political process has been hijacked by money and the people running are always the same cogs in the same machine. They don't represent us and they haven't in 100 years. The ad campaigns they run to sell us these people work on most of the Lemmings (i.e. "hope and change"). Collectively we don't have the intelligence or the will to get people in office who actually represent us.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Gerrymandering, is the correct answer. The boundaries of Congressional districts are very carefully drawn, with great complexity, so that they include people who will vote for the candidate. The politician picks his voters, instead of the voters choosing the politician. Imagine if you were running for an elected position and you were able to decide who votes for you. Do you think that you would win?
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: I like to tell Australians that "I exercise my right not to vote." I refuse to vote for the lessor of two evils, and I'm still waitng for a canidate who represents me fully. I'd go to write in "Stephen Colbert" but thats just a waste of resources.  I would always vote if the gov comes up with an app for that... ha
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: The short answer is, because they aren't real elections.

While that's not entirely true, after two centuries of political positioning and posturing, the cards have been effectively stacked in favor of the incumbent and reigning political parties.

edit: crap, I only just noticed this is supposed to be ELI5... oh well. I'll leave it up. I can take the downvotes.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Fixing it would involve more than 50% of voting-age Americans giving a shit.  Of those only 50% show up to vote.  Of those, only 50% know anything about who or what they are voting for.  Of those only 50% bother to be involved in the political process beyond voting day.  The rest watch "16 and Pregnant with the Kardashians"
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: I think it's because congress, not their specific politician has a 13% approval ratings. For the most part, republicans blame democrats and democrats blame republicans. So a republican thinks democrats ruin congress and thus congress is bad. And vice versa. I've come to this conclusion because these are my opinions, but I won't get too opinionated or political here
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Most Congressional districts are heavily gerrymandered, wherein a majority of the constituents are historically Republican or Democratic-leaning voters.  So even if many of them are upset with how Congress operates as a whole, they would still be much more reluctant to kick out the incumbent (who represents their views) than to vote for the other party's candidate.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: because when you check approval ratings people think about the "actions" of congress as one entity.

but when they vote they vote directly on party lines (all dem all repub) and or as the media "tells" them to vote.

OR the "ratings" are cherry picked statistics that mean nothing.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because if you ask most Americans what they think of their individual Congressman, they will usually say they like them. It's a kind of, "Well, MY Congressman isn't like the rest of Washington."
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: incumbency name recognition advantage - people are subconsciously more likely to vote for a name they recognize, and most people just do not take the time to educate themselves about the candidates.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: My government teacher put it as "I voted for this guy, and I'm not an idiot, so it must be the rest of Congress that is the problem"
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Basically it's battered-wife syndrome. I predict you'll see a change when people stop engaging in the charade and start opting-out en masse.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: "The best argument against democracy is a five-minute conversation with the average voter." - Winston Churchill
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: * Because running for office is extremely expensive 
* name recognition goes a very long way
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Watch this movie. It explains everything. [The Distinguished Gentleman (1992) starring Eddie Murphy](_URL_12_)
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because Americans just vote straight ticket instead of researching their candidates.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Power - >  Money - >  Advertising - >  Votes
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: The two party system has failed us. That is why.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: People are uninformed. Name recognition helps get politicians reelected
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because research is hard, and commercials are pretty.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: You should change yours I'm afraid of charge.
question: Why does congress have a 13% approval rate but incumbents are re-elected at a rate of 90%. answer: Because everybody elses congress critter is teh devil.
question: Why people advice not to use cellphones in the gas station? What could happen? answer: The theory is that the radiation caused by a cellphone making or receiving a call could cause fuel vapors to explode.

The Mythbusters [busted the shit](_URL_0_) out of this one, though -- there's absolutely no risk associated with using a phone.
question: Why people advice not to use cellphones in the gas station? What could happen? answer: Im surprised by these answers I thought it was because they didnt want you distracted while filling up and leaking fuel everywhere
question: Why people advice not to use cellphones in the gas station? What could happen? answer: It used to be believed that the cellphone signal receiver could somehow ignite the gasoline. But myth busters did an episode about it. Along with a bunch of other stuff about gas station fired.

Link here: _URL_1_
question: Why people advice not to use cellphones in the gas station? What could happen? answer: Electrical spark caused by static and your phone could ignite vapors from the gas hose and tank and blow up causing you to die.
question: Why people advice not to use cellphones in the gas station? What could happen? answer: My understanding was not the use in itself, but dropping it could cause the battery to shift and spark; igniting the vapors near the ground.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: In a normal functioning brain there are two factors that control sleep drive, the so-called "C" factor (Or Process C) and the "S" factor (or Process S).

The C factor is the Circadian rhythm, which is driven by day-night cycles. As bright lights such as the sun come and go, it increases and decreases your sleep drive over the course of the day. It's regulated in the brain by melatonin. In most people the C drive part is most pushing towards sleep around 10 PM though in some disorders it can move earlier or later, or move around randomly (this is a major problem in blind people who have no light cueing the brain to cycle with the proper time of day). It also changes through age, getting earlier into older age.

The S factor is the "homeostatic" sleep drive, driven by chemicals in the brain that accumulate while you are awake and then diminish while you sleep. So if you wake up at 7 AM these chemicals will start building up over the course of the day and eventually become so strong that you will want to go to bed, hopefully around the same time that your circadian rhythm sleep drive is peaking as well. One of these chemicals is adenosine, which is blocked by caffeine therefore mimicking the effects of getting enough sleep on your perceived level of alertness.

So you go to bed and fall asleep when the addition of your C and S factors make it too difficult or unpleasant to remain awake. As you sleep the S drive chemicals are reduced, and your Circadian rhythm drive falls as well, meaning that the drive for sleep reduces until eventually you wake up, either spontaneously or because your sleep is so light that some outside stimulus can awaken you pretty easily.

As you can see there are lots of ways that you can screw up one or both of these natural drives and therefore screw up a healthy sleep pattern. Too much napping in the day will reduce your S factor early and make it hard to fall asleep during the night. Drinking caffeine late in the day and blocking adenosine has the same effect chemically. Too much bright light like computer screens late in the evening reset your Circadian rhythms and trick your brain into thinking it's earlier than it is, making the C factor not push enough to let you fall asleep when you want.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: Circadian rhythm is the brain's "clock" (which basically runs in a 24 hour time frame). It creates an ebb and flow to our energy levels (energy usually depletes closer to evening and starts / increasing in the morning hours). This clock can adjust to flipped schedules (working at night and sleeping during the day) but other adjustments like blackout curtains during the day (sunlight is at least a part of the circadian rhythm) may have to be used. 

There are a number of abnormal circadian rhythms disorders that cause a host of problems. ADHD can cause insomnia (staying awake when you should be able to fall asleep for example) but most disorders aren't as pronounced as never being able to fall asleep or wake up (short of head trauma).
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: I use to have a friend who would basically hibernate every year, and go through an opposite process sometime afterward. Basically, she would at some point, almost always in the winter, sleep for several days. She'd wake up once a day to get a drink or use the bathroom, and then return to sleep. I think she said it was usually 1-2 weeks that she did this. Sometime afterwards, in the summer or something, she'd go through an opposite process of sleeping at most 1-2 hours for several weeks. Last I heard she stopped going through this process a few years ago, and the process started in her teens (she's now mid twenties)

I don't have any explanation for it, but I've always been curious what kind of thing causes such a weird sleep process and if anyone else has had something similar. So, anyone else ever had this or heard of such a thing?
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: If someone missed the function to 'wake up' they would technically be in a coma. The body has something called a 'circadian rhythm' which regulates the body's sleep cycle. Think about it like this, we evolved to sleep a certain length of time because oversleeping would be dangerous to our early ancestors who lived in the wild.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: I have no idea what the feeling of having enough sleep is, at least not a feeling that wakes me up.  In my early 20's I once went to bed on a Friday evening, no alcohol or funny business involved.  Woke up at what I thought was like noon Saturday.  It was noon Sunday.  I never have woken up in middle of night to relieve myself.  Have slept through things that wake everyone else up, like gunshots just outside bedroom window and minor earthquake tremors..... Never happened again.  But 12+ hours is a regular occurrence on weekends usually. I know as a young child my mother used to get really angry and throw a huge mixing bowl full of ice onto my head to make me get up..... Lol  She and I just figured, because lazy teenager.  There was truth in that but that one epic sleep event makes me wonder.  I've always told people I am a breath away from death when I sleep... because I don't recollect dreams.... I lay down, go out and it's many hours later (or the alarm is going off and I force myself to get up after snoozing it a few times..)
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: There is a sleep disorder called idiopathic hypersomnolence that causes some people to sleep for days at a time.  They generally have a very difficult time waking up with alarms, and can have a very difficult time living normal lives.  
There is also a disorder called Klein levin syndrome, aka sleeping beauty syndrome, that causes long sleep times.  
Im not sure about KLS, but there isnt any known reason why IH causes this.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: I believe it mostly has to do with circadian rhythm and how cortisol is released early in the morning. And because the body works on a negative and positive feedback mechanism. Therefore increase in cortisol will result in a decrease of melatonin. Here is a good map of this: 
_URL_0_
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: No one has brought up the fact that before the industrial revolution and the advent of alarm clocks, humans typically went to sleep for around 4 hours around dusk, woke up for a few hours, then went back to sleep for another 4 hours or so. This is the naturally evolved tendency in humans.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: I can sleep up to 48 hours if I have no external source to wake me up. Like right now, I went to bed at 1am, for got to set an alarm and in just woke up a few minutes ago from a text from my mom. Its 5pm. I wanna go back to bed.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: I have a condition called Idiotpathic Hypersomia that causes me to constantly be tired. They don't really have a cause for it but I can literally fall asleep anytime and anywhere if I let my guard down. I got sick one time and slept 48 hours with barely waking up... it is awful.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: remember , you aren't always awoken just because you "have had enough sleep", often is it needing to use the restroom, noises, lighting, temperature etc
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: My clock is off and I run on 48 tp 72 hour schedule if i do not take something to help me sleep.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: Sort of the reverse, but there are several people who can't sleep. They can stay awake indefinitely.

_URL_3_

_URL_3_

_URL_3_
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: Not a doctor, nor a scientist, but I'm pretty sure the answer the the latter question is a resounding 'no'.

Not indefinitely asleep at least. At some point you'd just be dead.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: What about non-24 for people who are blind, is that just circadian rhythm problems because there is no sunlight?
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: I suspect, given that being awake is such a fundamental necessity to survival, that the genes that allow us to wake normally will be intrinsically linked with other genes/functions, such that if they were faulty, it would not be compatible with life. I.e. if you had such a syndrome/genetic defect you would be miscarried in early pregnancy as a result. Hence we see no such conditions.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: I'm more interested in knowing what causes us to wake up before we've had enough sleep. Can't seem to get enough no matter what I try
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: I think I'm missing it, especially the last couple days, I've gotten around 18 hours of sleep two days in a row.
question: What causes us to wake up when we've had enough sleep? Has anyone ever been missing this function and could keep sleeping indefinitely if not woken up?[removed] answer: Heres a great article about the topic. It seems to be much more complex than we realize _URL_4_
test_eli5 singles: 9298 / 907824 = 0.010242073353425333
